	source	book	book_number	chapter	starting_verse	ending_verse	ten_commandments	hammurabi_law	hammurabi_epilogue	preamble	article	bill_of_rights	amendment	ethic
0	Mosaic	Genesis	1	1	28		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth.
1	Mosaic	Genesis	1	32	32		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Therefore the children of Israel eat not of the sinew which shrank, which is upon the hollow of the thigh, unto this day: because he touched the hollow of Jacob's thigh in the sinew that shrank.
2	Mosaic	Exodus	2	12	2		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	This month shall be unto you the beginning of months: it shall be the first month of the year to you.
3	Mosaic	Exodus	2	12	6		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And ye shall keep it up until the fourteenth day of the same month: and the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it in the evening.
4	Mosaic	Exodus	2	12	8		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And they shall eat the flesh in that night, roast with fire, and unleavened bread; and with bitter herbs they shall eat it.
5	Mosaic	Exodus	2	12	9		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Eat not of it raw, nor sodden at all with water, but roast with fire; his head with his legs, and with the purtenance thereof.
6	Mosaic	Exodus	2	12	10		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And ye shall let nothing of it remain until the morning; and that which remaineth of it until the morning ye shall burn with fire.
7	Mosaic	Exodus	2	12	15		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Seven days shall ye eat unleavened bread; even the first day ye shall put away leaven out of your houses: for whosoever eateth leavened bread from the first day until the seventh day, that soul shall be cut off from Israel.
8	Mosaic	Exodus	2	12	18		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at even, ye shall eat unleavened bread, until the one and twentieth day of the month at even.
9	Mosaic	Exodus	2	12	19		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Seven days shall there be no leaven found in your houses: for whosoever eateth that which is leavened, even that soul shall be cut off from the congregation of Israel, whether he be a stranger, or born in the land.
10	Mosaic	Exodus	2	12	20		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall eat nothing leavened; in all your habitations shall ye eat unleavened bread.
11	Mosaic	Exodus	2	12	43		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And the Lord said unto Moses and Aaron, This is the ordinance of the passover: There shall no stranger eat thereof:
12	Mosaic	Exodus	2	12	45		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	A foreigner and an hired servant shall not eat thereof.
13	Mosaic	Exodus	2	12	46		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	In one house shall it be eaten; thou shalt not carry forth ought of the flesh abroad out of the house; neither shall ye break a bone thereof.
14	Mosaic	Exodus	2	12	48		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And when a stranger shall sojourn with thee, and will keep the passover to the Lord, let all his males be circumcised, and then let him come near and keep it; and he shall be as one that is born in the land: for no uncircumcised person shall eat thereof.
15	Mosaic	Exodus	2	13	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And Moses said unto the people, Remember this day, in which ye came out from Egypt, out of the house of bondage; for by strength of hand the Lord brought you out from this place: there shall no leavened bread be eaten.
16	Mosaic	Exodus	2	13	7		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Unleavened bread shall be eaten seven days; and there shall no leavened bread be seen with thee, neither shall there be leaven seen with thee in all thy quarters.
17	Mosaic	Exodus	2	13	8		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And thou shalt shew thy son in that day, saying, This is done because of that which the Lord did unto me when I came forth out of Egypt.
18	Mosaic	Exodus	2	13	12		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	That thou shalt set apart unto the Lord all that openeth the matrix, and every firstling that cometh of a beast which thou hast; the males shall be the Lord'S.
19	Mosaic	Exodus	2	13	13		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And every firstling of an ass thou shalt redeem with a lamb; and if thou wilt not redeem it, then thou shalt break his neck: and all the firstborn of man among thy children shalt thou redeem.
20	Mosaic	Exodus	2	16	29		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	See, for that the Lord hath given you the sabbath, therefore he giveth you on the sixth day the bread of two days; abide ye every man in his place, let no man go out of his place on the seventh day.
21	Mosaic	Exodus	2	20	3		True	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt have no other gods before me.
22	Mosaic	Exodus	2	20	4		True	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of any thing that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth:
23	Mosaic	Exodus	2	20	5		True	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them: for I the Lord thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me;
24	Mosaic	Exodus	2	20	7		True	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain.
25	Mosaic	Exodus	2	20	8		True	False	False	False	False	False	False	Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy.
26	Mosaic	Exodus	2	20	10		True	False	False	False	False	False	False	But the seventh day is the sabbath of the Lord thy God: in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates:
27	Mosaic	Exodus	2	20	12		True	False	False	False	False	False	False	Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee.
28	Mosaic	Exodus	2	20	13		True	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not kill.
29	Mosaic	Exodus	2	20	14		True	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not commit adultery.
30	Mosaic	Exodus	2	20	15		True	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not steal.
31	Mosaic	Exodus	2	20	16		True	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour.
32	Mosaic	Exodus	2	20	17		True	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor any thing that is thy neighbour's.
33	Mosaic	Exodus	2	20	23		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall not make with me gods of silver, neither shall ye make unto you gods of gold.
34	Mosaic	Exodus	2	20	24		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	An altar of earth thou shalt make unto me, and shalt sacrifice thereon thy burnt offerings, and thy peace offerings, thy sheep, and thine oxen: in all places where I record my name I will come unto thee, and I will bless thee.
35	Mosaic	Exodus	2	20	26		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Neither shalt thou go up by steps unto mine altar, that thy nakedness be not discovered thereon.
36	Mosaic	Exodus	2	21	2		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	If thou buy an Hebrew servant, six years he shall serve: and in the seventh he shall go out free for nothing.
37	Mosaic	Exodus	2	21	8		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	If she please not her master, who hath betrothed her to himself, then shall he let her be redeemed: to sell her unto a strange nation he shall have no power, seeing he hath dealt deceitfully with her.
38	Mosaic	Exodus	2	21	10		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	If he take him another wife; her food, her raiment, and her duty of marriage, shall he not diminish.
39	Mosaic	Exodus	2	21	15		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And he that smiteth his father, or his mother, shall be surely put to death.
40	Mosaic	Exodus	2	21	17		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And he that curseth his father, or his mother, shall surely be put to death.
41	Mosaic	Exodus	2	21	18		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if men strive together, and one smite another with a stone, or with his fist, and he die not, but keepeth his bed:
42	Mosaic	Exodus	2	21	20		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if a man smite his servant, or his maid, with a rod, and he die under his hand; he shall be surely punished.
43	Mosaic	Exodus	2	21	28		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	If an ox gore a man or a woman, that they die: then the ox shall be surely stoned, and his flesh shall not be eaten; but the owner of the ox shall be quit.
44	Mosaic	Exodus	2	21	34		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	The owner of the pit shall make it good, and give money unto the owner of them; and the dead beast shall be his.
45	Mosaic	Exodus	2	21	36		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Or if it be known that the ox hath used to push in time past, and his owner hath not kept him in; he shall surely pay ox for ox; and the dead shall be his own.
46	Mosaic	Exodus	2	22	4		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	If the theft be certainly found in his hand alive, whether it be ox, or ass, or sheep; he shall restore double.
47	Mosaic	Exodus	2	22	5		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	If a man shall cause a field or vineyard to be eaten, and shall put in his beast, and shall feed in another man's field; of the best of his own field, and of the best of his own vineyard, shall he make restitution.
48	Mosaic	Exodus	2	22	6		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	If fire break out, and catch in thorns, so that the stacks of corn, or the standing corn, or the field, be consumed therewith; he that kindled the fire shall surely make restitution.
49	Mosaic	Exodus	2	22	8		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	If the thief be not found, then the master of the house shall be brought unto the judges, to see whether he have put his hand unto his neighbour's goods.
50	Mosaic	Exodus	2	22	9		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	For all manner of trespass, whether it be for ox, for ass, for sheep, for raiment, or for any manner of lost thing, which another challengeth to be his, the cause of both parties shall come before the judges; and whom the judges shall condemn, he shall pay double unto his neighbour.
51	Mosaic	Exodus	2	22	13		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	If it be torn in pieces, then let him bring it for witness, and he shall not make good that which was torn.
52	Mosaic	Exodus	2	22	16	17	False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if a man entice a maid that is not betrothed, and lie with her, he shall surely endow her to be his wife. If her father utterly refuse to give her unto him, he shall pay money according to the dowry of virgins.
53	Mosaic	Exodus	2	22	18		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live.
54	Mosaic	Exodus	2	22	21		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt neither vex a stranger, nor oppress him: for ye were strangers in the land of Egypt.
55	Mosaic	Exodus	2	22	22		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall not afflict any widow, or fatherless child.
56	Mosaic	Exodus	2	22	25		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	If thou lend money to any of my people that is poor by thee, thou shalt not be to him as an usurer, neither shalt thou lay upon him usury.
57	Mosaic	Exodus	2	22	28		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not revile the gods, nor curse the ruler of thy people.
58	Mosaic	Exodus	2	22	29		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not delay to offer the first of thy ripe fruits, and of thy liquors: the firstborn of thy sons shalt thou give unto me.
59	Mosaic	Exodus	2	22	30		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Likewise shalt thou do with thine oxen, and with thy sheep: seven days it shall be with his dam; on the eighth day thou shalt give it me.
60	Mosaic	Exodus	2	23	1		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not raise a false report: put not thine hand with the wicked to be an unrighteous witness.
61	Mosaic	Exodus	2	23	2		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not follow a multitude to do evil; neither shalt thou speak in a cause to decline after many to wrest judgment:
62	Mosaic	Exodus	2	23	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Neither shalt thou countenance a poor man in his cause.
63	Mosaic	Exodus	2	23	5		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	If thou see the ass of him that hateth thee lying under his burden, and wouldest forbear to help him, thou shalt surely help with him.
64	Mosaic	Exodus	2	23	6		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not wrest the judgment of thy poor in his cause.
65	Mosaic	Exodus	2	23	7		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	eep thee far from a false matter; and the innocent and righteous slay thou not: for I will not justify the wicked.
66	Mosaic	Exodus	2	23	8		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And thou shalt take no gift: for the gift blindeth the wise, and perverteth the words of the righteous.
67	Mosaic	Exodus	2	23	11		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But the seventh year thou shalt let it rest and lie still; that the poor of thy people may eat: and what they leave the beasts of the field shall eat. In like manner thou shalt deal with thy vineyard, and with thy oliveyard.
68	Mosaic	Exodus	2	23	12		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Six days thou shalt do thy work, and on the seventh day thou shalt rest: that thine ox and thine ass may rest, and the son of thy handmaid, and the stranger, may be refreshed.
69	Mosaic	Exodus	2	23	13		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And in all things that I have said unto you be circumspect: and make no mention of the name of other gods, neither let it be heard out of thy mouth.
70	Mosaic	Exodus	2	23	14		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Three times thou shalt keep a feast unto me in the year.
71	Mosaic	Exodus	2	23	18		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leavened bread; neither shall the fat of my sacrifice remain until the morning.
72	Mosaic	Exodus	2	23	19		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	The first of the firstfruits of thy land thou shalt bring into the house of the Lord thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in his mother's milk.
73	Mosaic	Exodus	2	23	25		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And ye shall serve the Lord your God, and he shall bless thy bread, and thy water; and I will take sickness away from the midst of thee.
74	Mosaic	Exodus	2	23	33		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	They shall not dwell in thy land, lest they make thee sin against me: for if thou serve their gods, it will surely be a snare unto thee.
75	Mosaic	Exodus	2	25	8		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And let them make me a sanctuary; that I may dwell among them.
76	Mosaic	Exodus	2	25	15		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	The staves shall be in the rings of the ark: they shall not be taken from it.
77	Mosaic	Exodus	2	25	30		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And thou shalt set upon the table shewbread before me alway.
78	Mosaic	Exodus	2	27	21		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	In the tabernacle of the congregation without the vail, which is before the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall order it from evening to morning before the Lord: it shall be a statute for ever unto their generations on the behalf of the children of Israel.
79	Mosaic	Exodus	2	28	2		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And thou shalt make holy garments for Aaron thy brother for glory and for beauty.
80	Mosaic	Exodus	2	28	28		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And they shall bind the breastplate by the rings thereof unto the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue, that it may be above the curious girdle of the ephod, and that the breastplate be not loosed from the ephod.
81	Mosaic	Exodus	2	28	32		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And there shall be an hole in the top of it, in the midst thereof: it shall have a binding of woven work round about the hole of it, as it were the hole of an habergeon, that it be not rent.
82	Mosaic	Exodus	2	29	33		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And they shall eat those things wherewith the atonement was made, to consecrate and to sanctify them: but a stranger shall not eat thereof, because they are holy.
83	Mosaic	Exodus	2	30	7		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And Aaron shall burn thereon sweet incense every morning: when he dresseth the lamps, he shall burn incense upon it.
84	Mosaic	Exodus	2	30	9		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall offer no strange incense thereon, nor burnt sacrifice, nor meat offering; neither shall ye pour drink offering thereon.
85	Mosaic	Exodus	2	30	13		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	This they shall give, every one that passeth among them that are numbered, half a shekel after the shekel of the sanctuary: (a shekel is twenty gerahs:) an half shekel shall be the offering of the Lord.
86	Mosaic	Exodus	2	30	19		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	For Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet thereat:
87	Mosaic	Exodus	2	30	31		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel, saying, This shall be an holy anointing oil unto me throughout your generations.
88	Mosaic	Exodus	2	30	32		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Upon man's flesh shall it not be poured, neither shall ye make any other like it, after the composition of it: it is holy, and it shall be holy unto you.
89	Mosaic	Exodus	2	30	37		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And as for the perfume which thou shalt make, ye shall not make to yourselves according to the composition thereof: it shall be unto thee holy for the Lord.
90	Mosaic	Exodus	2	34	21		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Six days thou shalt work, but on the seventh day thou shalt rest: in earing time and in harvest thou shalt rest.
91	Mosaic	Exodus	2	34	26		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	The first of the firstfruits of thy land thou shalt bring unto the house of the Lord thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in his mother's milk.
92	Mosaic	Exodus	2	35	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall kindle no fire throughout your habitations upon the sabbath day.
93	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	1	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	If his offering be a burnt sacrifice of the herd, let him offer a male without blemish: he shall offer it of his own voluntary will at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation before the Lord.
94	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	2	1		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And when any will offer a meat offering unto the Lord, his offering shall be of fine flour; and he shall pour oil upon it, and put frankincense thereon:
95	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	2	11		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	No meat offering, which ye shall bring unto the Lord, shall be made with leaven: for ye shall burn no leaven, nor any honey, in any offering of the Lord made by fire.
96	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	2	13		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And every oblation of thy meat offering shalt thou season with salt; neither shalt thou suffer the salt of the covenant of thy God to be lacking from thy meat offering: with all thine offerings thou shalt offer salt.
97	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	3	17		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	It shall be a perpetual statute for your generations throughout all your dwellings, that ye eat neither fat nor blood.
98	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	4	13	14	False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if the whole congregation of Israel sin through ignorance, and the thing be hid from the eyes of the assembly, and they have done somewhat against any of the commandments of the Lord concerning things which should not be done, and are guilty; When the sin, which they have sinned against it, is known, then the congregation shall offer a young bullock for the sin, and bring him before the tabernacle of the congregation.
99	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	4	27	28	False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if any one of the common people sin through ignorance, while he doeth somewhat against any of the commandments of the Lord concerning things which ought not to be done, and be guilty; Or if his sin, which he hath sinned, come to his knowledge: then he shall bring his offering, a kid of the goats, a female without blemish, for his sin which he hath sinned.
100	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	5	1		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if a soul sin, and hear the voice of swearing, and is a witness, whether he hath seen or known of it; if he do not utter it, then he shall bear his iniquity.
101	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	5	7	11	False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if he be not able to bring a lamb, then he shall bring for his trespass, which he hath committed, two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, unto the Lord; one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering. And he shall bring them unto the priest, who shall offer that which is for the sin offering first, and wring off his head from his neck, but shall not divide it asunder: And he shall sprinkle of the blood of the sin offering upon the side of the altar; and the rest of the blood shall be wrung out at the bottom of the altar: it is a sin offering. And he shall offer the second for a burnt offering, according to the manner: and the priest shall make an atonement for him for his sin which he hath sinned, and it shall be forgiven him. But if he be not able to bring two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, then he that sinned shall bring for his offering the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a sin offering; he shall put no oil upon it, neither shall he put any frankincense thereon: for it is a sin offering.
102	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	5	8		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And he shall bring them unto the priest, who shall offer that which is for the sin offering first, and wring off his head from his neck, but shall not divide it asunder:
103	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	5	11		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But if he be not able to bring two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, then he that sinned shall bring for his offering the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a sin offering; he shall put no oil upon it, neither shall he put any frankincense thereon: for it is a sin offering.
104	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	5	16		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And he shall make amends for the harm that he hath done in the holy thing, and shall add the fifth part thereto, and give it unto the priest: and the priest shall make an atonement for him with the ram of the trespass offering, and it shall be forgiven him.
105	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	5	17	18	False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if a soul sin, and commit any of these things which are forbidden to be done by the commandments of the Lord; though he wist it not, yet is he guilty, and shall bear his iniquity. And he shall bring a ram without blemish out of the flock, with thy estimation, for a trespass offering, unto the priest: and the priest shall make an atonement for him concerning his ignorance wherein he erred and wist it not, and it shall be forgiven him.
106	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	6	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Or have found that which was lost, and lieth concerning it, and sweareth falsely; in any of all these that a man doeth, sinning therein:
107	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	6	4	5	False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Then it shall be, because he hath sinned, and is guilty, that he shall restore that which he took violently away, or the thing which he hath deceitfully gotten, or that which was delivered him to keep, or the lost thing which he found, Or all that about which he hath sworn falsely; he shall even restore it in the principal, and shall add the fifth part more thereto, and give it unto him to whom it appertaineth, in the day of his trespass offering.
108	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	6	5		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Or all that about which he hath sworn falsely; he shall even restore it in the principal, and shall add the fifth part more thereto, and give it unto him to whom it appertaineth, in the day of his trespass offering.
109	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	6	6		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And he shall bring his trespass offering unto the Lord, a ram without blemish out of the flock, with thy estimation, for a trespass offering, unto the priest:
110	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	6	9		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Command Aaron and his sons, saying, This is the law of the burnt offering: It is the burnt offering, because of the burning upon the altar all night unto the morning, and the fire of the altar shall be burning in it.
111	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	6	10		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And the priest shall put on his linen garment, and his linen breeches shall he put upon his flesh, and take up the ashes which the fire hath consumed with the burnt offering on the altar, and he shall put them beside the altar.
112	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	6	13		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	The fire shall ever be burning upon the altar; it shall never go out.
113	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	6	16		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And the remainder thereof shall Aaron and his sons eat: with unleavened bread shall it be eaten in the holy place; in the court of the tabernacle of the congregation they shall eat it.
114	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	6	18		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	All the males among the children of Aaron shall eat of it. It shall be a statute for ever in your generations concerning the offerings of the Lord made by fire: every one that toucheth them shall be holy.
115	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	6	23		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	For every meat offering for the priest shall be wholly burnt: it shall not be eaten.
116	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	7	1		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Likewise this is the law of the trespass offering: it is most holy.
117	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	7	11		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And this is the law of the sacrifice of peace offerings, which he shall offer unto the Lord.
118	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	7	17		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But the remainder of the flesh of the sacrifice on the third day shall be burnt with fire.
119	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	7	18		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if any of the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings be eaten at all on the third day, it shall not be accepted, neither shall it be imputed unto him that offereth it: it shall be an abomination, and the soul that eateth of it shall bear his iniquity.
120	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	7	19		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And the flesh that toucheth any unclean thing shall not be eaten; it shall be burnt with fire: and as for the flesh, all that be clean shall eat thereof.
121	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	7	20		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But the soul that eateth of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace offerings, that pertain unto the Lord, having his uncleanness upon him, even that soul shall be cut off from his people.
122	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	10	6		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And Moses said unto Aaron, and unto Eleazar and unto Ithamar, his sons, Uncover not your heads, neither rend your clothes; lest ye die, and lest wrath come upon all the people: but let your brethren, the whole house of Israel, bewail the burning which the Lord hath kindled.
123	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	10	7		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And ye shall not go out from the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, lest ye die: for the anointing oil of the Lord is upon you. And they did according to the word of Moses.
124	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	10	9		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Do not drink wine nor strong drink, thou, nor thy sons with thee, when ye go into the tabernacle of the congregation, lest ye die: it shall be a statute for ever throughout your generations:
125	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	10	19		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And Aaron said unto Moses, Behold, this day have they offered their sin offering and their burnt offering before the Lord; and such things have befallen me: and if I had eaten the sin offering to day, should it have been accepted in the sight of the Lord?
126	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	11	2		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, These are the beasts which ye shall eat among all the beasts that are on the earth.
127	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	11	4		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Nevertheless these shall ye not eat of them that chew the cud, or of them that divide the hoof: as the camel, because he cheweth the cud, but divideth not the hoof; he is unclean unto you.
128	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	11	9		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	These shall ye eat of all that are in the waters: whatsoever hath fins and scales in the waters, in the seas, and in the rivers, them shall ye eat.
129	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	11	11		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	They shall be even an abomination unto you; ye shall not eat of their flesh, but ye shall have their carcases in abomination.
130	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	11	13		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And these are they which ye shall have in abomination among the fowls; they shall not be eaten, they are an abomination: the eagle, and the ossifrage, and the ospray,
131	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	11	21		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Yet these may ye eat of every flying creeping thing that goeth upon all four, which have legs above their feet, to leap withal upon the earth;
132	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	11	29		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	These also shall be unclean unto you among the creeping things that creep upon the earth; the weasel, and the mouse, and the tortoise after his kind,
133	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	11	34		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Of all meat which may be eaten, that on which such water cometh shall be unclean: and all drink that may be drunk in every such vessel shall be unclean.
134	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	11	39		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if any beast, of which ye may eat, die; he that toucheth the carcase thereof shall be unclean until the even.
135	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	11	41		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth shall be an abomination; it shall not be eaten.
136	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	11	42		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Whatsoever goeth upon the belly, and whatsoever goeth upon all four, or whatsoever hath more feet among all creeping things that creep upon the earth, them ye shall not eat; for they are an abomination.
137	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	11	43		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall not make yourselves abominable with any creeping thing that creepeth, neither shall ye make yourselves unclean with them, that ye should be defiled thereby.
138	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	11	44		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	For I am the Lord your God: ye shall therefore sanctify yourselves, and ye shall be holy; for I am holy: neither shall ye defile yourselves with any manner of creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.
139	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	12	2		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, If a woman have conceived seed, and born a man child: then she shall be unclean seven days; according to the days of the separation for her infirmity shall she be unclean.
140	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	12	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And in the eighth day the flesh of his foreskin shall be circumcised.
141	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	12	6		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And when the days of her purifying are fulfilled, for a son, or for a daughter, she shall bring a lamb of the first year for a burnt offering, and a young pigeon, or a turtledove, for a sin offering, unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, unto the priest:
142	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	13	12		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if a leprosy break out abroad in the skin, and the leprosy cover all the skin of him that hath the plague from his head even to his foot, wheresoever the priest looketh;
143	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	13	33		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	He shall be shaven, but the scall shall he not shave; and the priest shall shut up him that hath the scall seven days more:
144	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	13	45		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And the leper in whom the plague is, his clothes shall be rent, and his head bare, and he shall put a covering upon his upper lip, and shall cry, Unclean, unclean.
145	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	13	47		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	The garment also that the plague of leprosy is in, whether it be a woollen garment, or a linen garment;
146	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	14	2		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	This shall be the law of the leper in the day of his cleansing: He shall be brought unto the priest:
147	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	14	9		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But it shall be on the seventh day, that he shall shave all his hair off his head and his beard and his eyebrows, even all his hair he shall shave off: and he shall wash his clothes, also he shall wash his flesh in water, and he shall be clean.
148	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	14	10		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And on the eighth day he shall take two he lambs without blemish, and one ewe lamb of the first year without blemish, and three tenth deals of fine flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, and one log of oil.
149	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	14	35		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And he that owneth the house shall come and tell the priest, saying, It seemeth to me there is as it were a plague in the house:
150	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	15	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And this shall be his uncleanness in his issue: whether his flesh run with his issue, or his flesh be stopped from his issue, it is his uncleanness.
151	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	15	13	14	False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And when he that hath an issue is cleansed of his issue; then he shall number to himself seven days for his cleansing, and wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in running water, and shall be clean. And on the eighth day he shall take to him two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, and come before the Lord unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and give them unto the priest:
152	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	15	16		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if any man's seed of copulation go out from him, then he shall wash all his flesh in water, and be unclean until the even.
153	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	15	19		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if a woman have an issue, and her issue in her flesh be blood, she shall be put apart seven days: and whosoever toucheth her shall be unclean until the even.
154	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	15	25		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if a woman have an issue of her blood many days out of the time of her separation, or if it run beyond the time of her separation; all the days of the issue of her uncleanness shall be as the days of her separation: she shall be unclean.
155	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	15	28	29	False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But if she be cleansed of her issue, then she shall number to herself seven days, and after that she shall be clean. And on the eighth day she shall take unto her two turtles, or two young pigeons, and bring them unto the priest, to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
156	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	16	2		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And the Lord said unto Moses, Speak unto Aaron thy brother, that he come not at all times into the holy place within the vail before the mercy seat, which is upon the ark; that he die not: for I will appear in the cloud upon the mercy seat.
157	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	16	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thus shall Aaron come into the holy place: with a young bullock for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering.
158	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	16	29		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And this shall be a statute for ever unto you: that in the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, ye shall afflict your souls, and do no work at all, whether it be one of your own country, or a stranger that sojourneth among you:
159	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	17	4		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And bringeth it not unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, to offer an offering unto the Lord before the tabernacle of the Lord; blood shall be imputed unto that man; he hath shed blood; and that man shall be cut off from among his people:
160	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	17	13		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And whatsoever man there be of the children of Israel, or of the strangers that sojourn among you, which hunteth and catcheth any beast or fowl that may be eaten; he shall even pour out the blood thereof, and cover it with dust.
161	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	18	6		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	None of you shall approach to any that is near of kin to him, to uncover their nakedness: I am the Lord.
162	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	18	7		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	The nakedness of thy father, or the nakedness of thy mother, shalt thou not uncover: she is thy mother; thou shalt not uncover her nakedness.
163	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	18	8		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	The nakedness of thy father's wife shalt thou not uncover: it is thy father's nakedness.
164	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	18	9		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	The nakedness of thy sister, the daughter of thy father, or daughter of thy mother, whether she be born at home, or born abroad, even their nakedness thou shalt not uncover.
165	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	18	10		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	The nakedness of thy son's daughter, or of thy daughter's daughter, even their nakedness thou shalt not uncover: for theirs is thine own nakedness.
166	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	18	11		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	The nakedness of thy father's wife's daughter, begotten of thy father, she is thy sister, thou shalt not uncover her nakedness.
167	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	18	12		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy father's sister: she is thy father's near kinswoman.
168	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	18	13		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy mother's sister: for she is thy mother's near kinswoman.
169	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	18	14		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy father's brother, thou shalt not approach to his wife: she is thine aunt.
170	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	18	15		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy daughter in law: she is thy son's wife; thou shalt not uncover her nakedness.
171	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	18	16		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy brother's wife: it is thy brother's nakedness.
172	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	18	17		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of a woman and her daughter, neither shalt thou take her son's daughter, or her daughter's daughter, to uncover her nakedness; for they are her near kinswomen: it is wickedness.
173	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	18	18		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Neither shalt thou take a wife to her sister, to vex her, to uncover her nakedness, beside the other in her life time.
174	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	18	19		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Also thou shalt not approach unto a woman to uncover her nakedness, as long as she is put apart for her uncleanness.
175	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	18	20		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Moreover thou shalt not lie carnally with thy neighbour's wife, to defile thyself with her.
176	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	18	21		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And thou shalt not let any of thy seed pass through the fire to Molech, neither shalt thou profane the name of thy God: I am the Lord.
177	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	18	22		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not lie with mankind, as with womankind: it is abomination.
178	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	18	23		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Neither shalt thou lie with any beast to defile thyself therewith: neither shall any woman stand before a beast to lie down thereto: it is confusion.
179	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	19	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall fear every man his mother, and his father, and keep my sabbaths: I am the Lord your God.
180	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	19	4		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Turn ye not unto idols, nor make to yourselves molten gods: I am the Lord your God.
181	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	19	8		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Therefore every one that eateth it shall bear his iniquity, because he hath profaned the hallowed thing of the Lord: and that soul shall be cut off from among his people.
182	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	19	9		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not wholly reap the corners of thy field, neither shalt thou gather the gleanings of thy harvest.
183	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	19	10		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And thou shalt not glean thy vineyard, neither shalt thou gather every grape of thy vineyard; thou shalt leave them for the poor and stranger: I am the Lord your God.
184	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	19	11		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall not steal, neither deal falsely, neither lie one to another.
185	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	19	12		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And ye shall not swear by my name falsely, neither shalt thou profane the name of thy God: I am the Lord.
186	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	19	13		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not defraud thy neighbour, neither rob him: the wages of him that is hired shall not abide with thee all night until the morning.
187	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	19	14		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not curse the deaf, nor put a stumblingblock before the blind, but shalt fear thy God: I am the Lord.
188	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	19	15		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment: thou shalt not respect the person of the poor, nor honour the person of the mighty: but in righteousness shalt thou judge thy neighbour.
189	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	19	16		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not go up and down as a talebearer among thy people: neither shalt thou stand against the blood of thy neighbour: I am the Lord.
190	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	19	17		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not hate thy brother in thine heart: thou shalt in any wise rebuke thy neighbour, and not suffer sin upon him.
191	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	19	18		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not avenge, nor bear any grudge against the children of thy people, but thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself: I am the Lord.
192	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	19	19		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall keep my statutes. Thou shalt not let thy cattle gender with a diverse kind: thou shalt not sow thy field with mingled seed: neither shall a garment mingled of linen and woollen come upon thee.
193	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	19	23		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And when ye shall come into the land, and shall have planted all manner of trees for food, then ye shall count the fruit thereof as uncircumcised: three years shall it be as uncircumcised unto you: it shall not be eaten of.
194	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	19	24		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But in the fourth year all the fruit thereof shall be holy to praise the Lord withal.
195	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	19	26		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall not eat any thing with the blood: neither shall ye use enchantment, nor observe times.
196	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	19	27		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall not round the corners of your heads, neither shalt thou mar the corners of thy beard.
197	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	19	28		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor print any marks upon you: I am the Lord.
198	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	19	30		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary: I am the Lord.
199	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	19	31		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Regard not them that have familiar spirits, neither seek after wizards, to be defiled by them: I am the Lord your God.
200	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	19	32		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt rise up before the hoary head, and honour the face of the old man, and fear thy God: I am the Lord.
201	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	19	35		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in meteyard, in weight, or in measure.
202	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	19	36		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	ust balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin, shall ye have: I am the Lord your God, which brought you out of the land of Egypt.
203	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	20	10		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And the man that committeth adultery with another man's wife, even he that committeth adultery with his neighbour's wife, the adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put to death.
204	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	20	14		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if a man take a wife and her mother, it is wickedness: they shall be burnt with fire, both he and they; that there be no wickedness among you.
205	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	20	23		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And ye shall not walk in the manners of the nation, which I cast out before you: for they committed all these things, and therefore I abhorred them.
206	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	21	1		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And the Lord said unto Moses, Speak unto the priests the sons of Aaron, and say unto them, There shall none be defiled for the dead among his people:
207	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	21	6		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	They shall be holy unto their God, and not profane the name of their God: for the offerings of the Lord made by fire, and the bread of their God, they do offer: therefore they shall be holy.
208	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	21	7		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	They shall not take a wife that is a whore, or profane; neither shall they take a woman put away from her husband: for he is holy unto his God.
209	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	21	8		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt sanctify him therefore; for he offereth the bread of thy God: he shall be holy unto thee: for I the Lord, which sanctify you, am holy.
210	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	21	11		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Neither shall he go in to any dead body, nor defile himself for his father, or for his mother;
211	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	21	13		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And he shall take a wife in her virginity.
212	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	21	14		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	A widow, or a divorced woman, or profane, or an harlot, these shall he not take: but he shall take a virgin of his own people to wife.
213	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	21	17		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Speak unto Aaron, saying, Whosoever he be of thy seed in their generations that hath any blemish, let him not approach to offer the bread of his God.
214	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	21	18		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	For whatsoever man he be that hath a blemish, he shall not approach: a blind man, or a lame, or he that hath a flat nose, or any thing superfluous,
215	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	21	23		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Only he shall not go in unto the vail, nor come nigh unto the altar, because he hath a blemish; that he profane not my sanctuaries: for I the Lord do sanctify them.
216	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	22	2		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Speak unto Aaron and to his sons, that they separate themselves from the holy things of the children of Israel, and that they profane not my holy name in those things which they hallow unto me: I am the Lord.
217	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	22	4		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	What man soever of the seed of Aaron is a leper, or hath a running issue; he shall not eat of the holy things, until he be clean. And whoso toucheth any thing that is unclean by the dead, or a man whose seed goeth from him;
218	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	22	10		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	There shall no stranger eat of the holy thing: a sojourner of the priest, or an hired servant, shall not eat of the holy thing.
219	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	22	12		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	If the priest's daughter also be married unto a stranger, she may not eat of an offering of the holy things.
220	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	22	15		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And they shall not profane the holy things of the children of Israel, which they offer unto the Lord;
221	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	22	20		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But whatsoever hath a blemish, that shall ye not offer: for it shall not be acceptable for you.
222	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	22	21		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And whosoever offereth a sacrifice of peace offerings unto the Lord to accomplish his vow, or a freewill offering in beeves or sheep, it shall be perfect to be accepted; there shall be no blemish therein.
223	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	22	22		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Blind, or broken, or maimed, or having a wen, or scurvy, or scabbed, ye shall not offer these unto the Lord, nor make an offering by fire of them upon the altar unto the Lord.
224	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	22	24		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall not offer unto the Lord that which is bruised, or crushed, or broken, or cut; neither shall ye make any offering thereof in your land.
225	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	22	25		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Neither from a stranger's hand shall ye offer the bread of your God of any of these; because their corruption is in them, and blemishes be in them: they shall not be accepted for you.
226	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	22	27		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	When a bullock, or a sheep, or a goat, is brought forth, then it shall be seven days under the dam; and from the eighth day and thenceforth it shall be accepted for an offering made by fire unto the Lord.
227	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	22	28		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And whether it be cow or ewe, ye shall not kill it and her young both in one day.
228	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	22	30		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	On the same day it shall be eaten up; ye shall leave none of it until the morrow: I am the Lord.
229	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	22	32		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Neither shall ye profane my holy name; but I will be hallowed among the children of Israel: I am the Lord which hallow you,
230	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	23	8		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto the Lord seven days: in the seventh day is an holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work therein.
231	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	23	10		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye be come into the land which I give unto you, and shall reap the harvest thereof, then ye shall bring a sheaf of the firstfruits of your harvest unto the priest:
232	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	23	14		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And ye shall eat neither bread, nor parched corn, nor green ears, until the selfsame day that ye have brought an offering unto your God: it shall be a statute for ever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
233	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	23	15		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And ye shall count unto you from the morrow after the sabbath, from the day that ye brought the sheaf of the wave offering; seven sabbaths shall be complete:
234	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	23	18		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And ye shall offer with the bread seven lambs without blemish of the first year, and one young bullock, and two rams: they shall be for a burnt offering unto the Lord, with their meat offering, and their drink offerings, even an offering made by fire, of sweet savour unto the Lord.
235	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	23	21		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And ye shall proclaim on the selfsame day, that it may be an holy convocation unto you: ye shall do no servile work therein: it shall be a statute for ever in all your dwellings throughout your generations.
236	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	23	24		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, In the seventh month, in the first day of the month, shall ye have a sabbath, a memorial of blowing of trumpets, an holy convocation.
237	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	23	25		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall do no servile work therein: but ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto the Lord.
238	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	23	29		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	For whatsoever soul it be that shall not be afflicted in that same day, he shall be cut off from among his people.
239	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	23	31		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall do no manner of work: it shall be a statute for ever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
240	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	23	32		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	It shall be unto you a sabbath of rest, and ye shall afflict your souls: in the ninth day of the month at even, from even unto even, shall ye celebrate your sabbath.
241	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	23	35		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	On the first day shall be an holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work therein.
242	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	23	36		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Seven days ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto the Lord: on the eighth day shall be an holy convocation unto you; and ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto the Lord: it is a solemn assembly; and ye shall do no servile work therein.
243	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	23	40		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And ye shall take you on the first day the boughs of goodly trees, branches of palm trees, and the boughs of thick trees, and willows of the brook; and ye shall rejoice before the Lord your God seven days.
244	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	23	42		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall dwell in booths seven days; all that are Israelites born shall dwell in booths:
245	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	25	4		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But in the seventh year shall be a sabbath of rest unto the land, a sabbath for the Lord: thou shalt neither sow thy field, nor prune thy vineyard.
246	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	25	5		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	That which groweth of its own accord of thy harvest thou shalt not reap, neither gather the grapes of thy vine undressed: for it is a year of rest unto the land.
247	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	25	8		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And thou shalt number seven sabbaths of years unto thee, seven times seven years; and the space of the seven sabbaths of years shall be unto thee forty and nine years.
248	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	25	9		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Then shalt thou cause the trumpet of the jubile to sound on the tenth day of the seventh month, in the day of atonement shall ye make the trumpet sound throughout all your land.
249	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	25	10		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And ye shall hallow the fiftieth year, and proclaim liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof: it shall be a jubile unto you; and ye shall return every man unto his possession, and ye shall return every man unto his family.
250	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	25	11		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	A jubile shall that fiftieth year be unto you: ye shall not sow, neither reap that which groweth of itself in it, nor gather the grapes in it of thy vine undressed.
251	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	25	14		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if thou sell ought unto thy neighbour, or buyest ought of thy neighbour's hand, ye shall not oppress one another:
252	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	25	17		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall not therefore oppress one another; but thou shalt fear thy God: for I am the Lord your God.
253	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	25	23		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	The land shall not be sold for ever: for the land is mine; for ye are strangers and sojourners with me.
254	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	25	24		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And in all the land of your possession ye shall grant a redemption for the land.
255	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	25	29		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if a man sell a dwelling house in a walled city, then he may redeem it within a whole year after it is sold; within a full year may he redeem it.
256	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	25	34		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But the field of the suburbs of their cities may not be sold; for it is their perpetual possession.
257	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	25	37		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not give him thy money upon usury, nor lend him thy victuals for increase.
258	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	25	39		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if thy brother that dwelleth by thee be waxen poor, and be sold unto thee; thou shalt not compel him to serve as a bondservant:
259	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	25	42		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	For they are my servants, which I brought forth out of the land of Egypt: they shall not be sold as bondmen.
260	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	25	43		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not rule over him with rigour; but shalt fear thy God.
261	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	25	46		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And ye shall take them as an inheritance for your children after you, to inherit them for a possession; they shall be your bondmen for ever: but over your brethren the children of Israel, ye shall not rule one over another with rigour.
262	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	25	53		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And as a yearly hired servant shall he be with him: and the other shall not rule with rigour over him in thy sight.
263	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	26	1		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall make you no idols nor graven image, neither rear you up a standing image, neither shall ye set up any image of stone in your land, to bow down unto it: for I am the Lord your God.
264	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	27	2		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When a man shall make a singular vow, the persons shall be for the Lord by thy estimation.
265	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	27	10		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	He shall not alter it, nor change it, a good for a bad, or a bad for a good: and if he shall at all change beast for beast, then it and the exchange thereof shall be holy.
266	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	27	12	13	False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And the priest shall value it, whether it be good or bad: as thou valuest it, who art the priest, so shall it be. But if he will at all redeem it, then he shall add a fifth part thereof unto thy estimation.
267	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	27	14		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And when a man shall sanctify his house to be holy unto the Lord, then the priest shall estimate it, whether it be good or bad: as the priest shall estimate it, so shall it stand.
268	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	27	16		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if a man shall sanctify unto the Lord some part of a field of his possession, then thy estimation shall be according to the seed thereof: an homer of barley seed shall be valued at fifty shekels of silver.
269	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	27	26		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Only the firstling of the beasts, which should be the Lord'S firstling, no man shall sanctify it; whether it be ox, or sheep: it is the Lord'S.
270	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	27	28		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Notwithstanding no devoted thing, that a man shall devote unto the Lord of all that he hath, both of man and beast, and of the field of his possession, shall be sold or redeemed: every devoted thing is most holy unto the Lord.
271	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	27	32		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And concerning the tithe of the herd, or of the flock, even of whatsoever passeth under the rod, the tenth shall be holy unto the Lord.
272	Mosaic	Leviticus	3	27	33		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	He shall not search whether it be good or bad, neither shall he change it: and if he change it at all, then both it and the change thereof shall be holy; it shall not be redeemed.
273	Mosaic	Numbers	4	5	2		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Command the children of Israel, that they put out of the camp every leper, and every one that hath an issue, and whosoever is defiled by the dead:
274	Mosaic	Numbers	4	5	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Both male and female shall ye put out, without the camp shall ye put them; that they defile not their camps, in the midst whereof I dwell.
275	Mosaic	Numbers	4	5	7		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Then they shall confess their sin which they have done: and he shall recompense his trespass with the principal thereof, and add unto it the fifth part thereof, and give it unto him against whom he hath trespassed.
276	Mosaic	Numbers	4	5	15		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Then shall the man bring his wife unto the priest, and he shall bring her offering for her, the tenth part of an ephah of barley meal; he shall pour no oil upon it, nor put frankincense thereon; for it is an offering of jealousy, an offering of memorial, bringing iniquity to remembrance.
277	Mosaic	Numbers	4	5	30		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Or when the spirit of jealousy cometh upon him, and he be jealous over his wife, and shall set the woman before the Lord, and the priest shall execute upon her all this law.
278	Mosaic	Numbers	4	6	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	He shall separate himself from wine and strong drink, and shall drink no vinegar of wine, or vinegar of strong drink, neither shall he drink any liquor of grapes, nor eat moist grapes, or dried.
279	Mosaic	Numbers	4	6	4		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	All the days of his separation shall he eat nothing that is made of the vine tree, from the kernels even to the husk.
280	Mosaic	Numbers	4	6	5		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	All the days of the vow of his separation there shall no razor come upon his head: until the days be fulfilled, in the which he separateth himself unto the Lord, he shall be holy, and shall let the locks of the hair of his head grow.
281	Mosaic	Numbers	4	6	6		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	All the days that he separateth himself unto the Lord he shall come at no dead body.
282	Mosaic	Numbers	4	6	7		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	He shall not make himself unclean for his father, or for his mother, for his brother, or for his sister, when they die: because the consecration of his God is upon his head.
283	Mosaic	Numbers	4	6	18		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And the Nazarite shall shave the head of his separation at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and shall take the hair of the head of his separation, and put it in the fire which is under the sacrifice of the peace offerings.
284	Mosaic	Numbers	4	6	23		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Speak unto Aaron and unto his sons, saying, On this wise ye shall bless the children of Israel, saying unto them,
285	Mosaic	Numbers	4	7	9		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But unto the sons of Kohath he gave none: because the service of the sanctuary belonging unto them was that they should bear upon their shoulders.
286	Mosaic	Numbers	4	9	11		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	The fourteenth day of the second month at even they shall keep it, and eat it with unleavened bread and bitter herbs.
287	Mosaic	Numbers	4	9	12		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	They shall leave none of it unto the morning, nor break any bone of it: according to all the ordinances of the passover they shall keep it.
288	Mosaic	Numbers	4	10	9		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if ye go to war in your land against the enemy that oppresseth you, then ye shall blow an alarm with the trumpets; and ye shall be remembered before the Lord your God, and ye shall be saved from your enemies.
289	Mosaic	Numbers	4	15	20		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall offer up a cake of the first of your dough for an heave offering: as ye do the heave offering of the threshingfloor, so shall ye heave it.
290	Mosaic	Numbers	4	15	38		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Speak unto the children of Israel, and bid them that they make them fringes in the borders of their garments throughout their generations, and that they put upon the fringe of the borders a ribband of blue:
291	Mosaic	Numbers	4	15	39		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And it shall be unto you for a fringe, that ye may look upon it, and remember all the commandments of the Lord, and do them; and that ye seek not after your own heart and your own eyes, after which ye use to go a whoring:
292	Mosaic	Numbers	4	18	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And they shall keep thy charge, and the charge of all the tabernacle: only they shall not come nigh the vessels of the sanctuary and the altar, that neither they, nor ye also, die.
293	Mosaic	Numbers	4	18	4		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And they shall be joined unto thee, and keep the charge of the tabernacle of the congregation, for all the service of the tabernacle: and a stranger shall not come nigh unto you.
294	Mosaic	Numbers	4	18	5		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And ye shall keep the charge of the sanctuary, and the charge of the altar: that there be no wrath any more upon the children of Israel.
295	Mosaic	Numbers	4	18	15		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Every thing that openeth the matrix in all flesh, which they bring unto the Lord, whether it be of men or beasts, shall be thine: nevertheless the firstborn of man shalt thou surely redeem, and the firstling of unclean beasts shalt thou redeem.
296	Mosaic	Numbers	4	18	17		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But the firstling of a cow, or the firstling of a sheep, or the firstling of a goat, thou shalt not redeem; they are holy: thou shalt sprinkle their blood upon the altar, and shalt burn their fat for an offering made by fire, for a sweet savour unto the Lord.
297	Mosaic	Numbers	4	18	23		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But the Levites shall do the service of the tabernacle of the congregation, and they shall bear their iniquity: it shall be a statute for ever throughout your generations, that among the children of Israel they have no inheritance.
298	Mosaic	Numbers	4	18	24		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But the tithes of the children of Israel, which they offer as an heave offering unto the Lord, I have given to the Levites to inherit: therefore I have said unto them, Among the children of Israel they shall have no inheritance.
299	Mosaic	Numbers	4	18	26		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thus speak unto the Levites, and say unto them, When ye take of the children of Israel the tithes which I have given you from them for your inheritance, then ye shall offer up an heave offering of it for the Lord, even a tenth part of the tithe.
300	Mosaic	Numbers	4	19	9		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And a man that is clean shall gather up the ashes of the heifer, and lay them up without the camp in a clean place, and it shall be kept for the congregation of the children of Israel for a water of separation: it is a purification for sin.
301	Mosaic	Numbers	4	19	14		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	This is the law, when a man dieth in a tent: all that come into the tent, and all that is in the tent, shall be unclean seven days.
302	Mosaic	Numbers	4	19	21		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And it shall be a perpetual statute unto them, that he that sprinkleth the water of separation shall wash his clothes; and he that toucheth the water of separation shall be unclean until even.
303	Mosaic	Numbers	4	27	8		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel, saying, If a man die, and have no son, then ye shall cause his inheritance to pass unto his daughter.
304	Mosaic	Numbers	4	28	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And thou shalt say unto them, This is the offering made by fire which ye shall offer unto the Lord; two lambs of the first year without spot day by day, for a continual burnt offering.
305	Mosaic	Numbers	4	28	9	10	False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And on the sabbath day two lambs of the first year without spot, and two tenth deals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, and the drink offering thereof: This is the burnt offering of every sabbath, beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.
306	Mosaic	Numbers	4	28	11	15	False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And in the beginnings of your months ye shall offer a burnt offering unto the Lord; two young bullocks, and one ram, seven lambs of the first year without spot; And three tenth deals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, for one bullock; and two tenth deals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, for one ram; And a several tenth deal of flour mingled with oil for a meat offering unto one lamb; for a burnt offering of a sweet savour, a sacrifice made by fire unto the Lord. And their drink offerings shall be half an hin of wine unto a bullock, and the third part of an hin unto a ram, and a fourth part of an hin unto a lamb: this is the burnt offering of every month throughout the months of the year. And one kid of the goats for a sin offering unto the Lord shall be offered, beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.
307	Mosaic	Numbers	4	28	19		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But ye shall offer a sacrifice made by fire for a burnt offering unto the Lord; two young bullocks, and one ram, and seven lambs of the first year: they shall be unto you without blemish:
308	Mosaic	Numbers	4	28	26		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Also in the day of the firstfruits, when ye bring a new meat offering unto the Lord, after your weeks be out, ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work:
309	Mosaic	Numbers	4	29	1		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And in the seventh month, on the first day of the month, ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work: it is a day of blowing the trumpets unto you.
310	Mosaic	Numbers	4	29	2		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And ye shall offer a burnt offering for a sweet savour unto the Lord; one young bullock, one ram, and seven lambs of the first year without blemish:
311	Mosaic	Numbers	4	29	8		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But ye shall offer a burnt offering unto the Lord for a sweet savour; one young bullock, one ram, and seven lambs of the first year; they shall be unto you without blemish:
312	Mosaic	Numbers	4	29	13		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And ye shall offer a burnt offering, a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the Lord; thirteen young bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year; they shall be without blemish:
313	Mosaic	Numbers	4	29	35		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	On the eighth day ye shall have a solemn assembly: ye shall do no servile work therein:
314	Mosaic	Numbers	4	30	2		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	If a man vow a vow unto the Lord, or swear an oath to bind his soul with a bond; he shall not break his word, he shall do according to all that proceedeth out of his mouth.
315	Mosaic	Numbers	4	35	2		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Command the children of Israel, that they give unto the Levites of the inheritance of their possession cities to dwell in; and ye shall give also unto the Levites suburbs for the cities round about them.
316	Mosaic	Numbers	4	35	12		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And they shall be unto you cities for refuge from the avenger; that the manslayer die not, until he stand before the congregation in judgment.
317	Mosaic	Numbers	4	35	25		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And the congregation shall deliver the slayer out of the hand of the revenger of blood, and the congregation shall restore him to the city of his refuge, whither he was fled: and he shall abide in it unto the death of the high priest, which was anointed with the holy oil.
318	Mosaic	Numbers	4	35	30		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Whoso killeth any person, the murderer shall be put to death by the mouth of witnesses: but one witness shall not testify against any person to cause him to die.
319	Mosaic	Numbers	4	35	31		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Moreover ye shall take no satisfaction for the life of a murderer, which is guilty of death: but he shall be surely put to death.
320	Mosaic	Numbers	4	35	32		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And ye shall take no satisfaction for him that is fled to the city of his refuge, that he should come again to dwell in the land, until the death of the priest.
321	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	1	17		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall not respect persons in judgment; but ye shall hear the small as well as the great; ye shall not be afraid of the face of man; for the judgment is God's: and the cause that is too hard for you, bring it unto me, and I will hear it.
322	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	5	18	22	True	False	False	False	False	False	False	Neither shalt thou commit adultery. Neither shalt thou steal. Neither shalt thou bear false witness against thy neighbour. Neither shalt thou desire thy neighbour's wife, neither shalt thou covet thy neighbour's house, his field, or his manservant, or his maidservant, his ox, or his ass, or any thing that is thy neighbour's. These words the Lord spake unto all your assembly in the mount out of the midst of the fire, of the cloud, and of the thick darkness, with a great voice: and he added no more. And he wrote them in two tables of stone, and delivered them unto me.
323	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	6	4		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God is one Lord:
324	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	6	5		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might.
325	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	6	7		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up.
326	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	6	8		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thine hand, and they shall be as frontlets between thine eyes.
327	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	6	9		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And thou shalt write them upon the posts of thy house, and on thy gates.
328	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	6	16		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall not tempt the Lord your God, as ye tempted him in Massah.
329	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	7	2		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And when the Lord thy God shall deliver them before thee; thou shalt smite them, and utterly destroy them; thou shalt make no covenant with them, nor shew mercy unto them:
330	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	7	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Neither shalt thou make marriages with them; thy daughter thou shalt not give unto his son, nor his daughter shalt thou take unto thy son.
331	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	7	25		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	The graven images of their gods shall ye burn with fire: thou shalt not desire the silver or gold that is on them, nor take it unto thee, lest thou be snared therein: for it is an abomination to the Lord thy God.
332	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	7	26		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Neither shalt thou bring an abomination into thine house, lest thou be a cursed thing like it: but thou shalt utterly detest it, and thou shalt utterly abhor it; for it is a cursed thing.
333	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	8	10		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	When thou hast eaten and art full, then thou shalt bless the Lord thy God for the good land which he hath given thee.
334	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	10	19		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Love ye therefore the stranger: for ye were strangers in the land of Egypt.
335	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	10	20		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt fear the Lord thy God; him shalt thou serve, and to him shalt thou cleave, and swear by his name.
336	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	12	2		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall utterly destroy all the places, wherein the nations which ye shall possess served their gods, upon the high mountains, and upon the hills, and under every green tree:
337	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	12	4		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall not do so unto the Lord your God.
338	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	12	5	6	False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But unto the place which the Lord your God shall choose out of all your tribes to put his name there, even unto his habitation shall ye seek, and thither thou shalt come: And thither ye shall bring your burnt offerings, and your sacrifices, and your tithes, and heave offerings of your hand, and your vows, and your freewill offerings, and the firstlings of your herds and of your flocks:
339	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	12	11		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Then there shall be a place which the Lord your God shall choose to cause his name to dwell there; thither shall ye bring all that I command you; your burnt offerings, and your sacrifices, your tithes, and the heave offering of your hand, and all your choice vows which ye vow unto the Lord:
340	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	12	13		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Take heed to thyself that thou offer not thy burnt offerings in every place that thou seest:
341	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	12	15		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Notwithstanding thou mayest kill and eat flesh in all thy gates, whatsoever thy soul lusteth after, according to the blessing of the Lord thy God which he hath given thee: the unclean and the clean may eat thereof, as of the roebuck, and as of the hart.
342	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	12	17		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou mayest not eat within thy gates the tithe of thy corn, or of thy wine, or of thy oil, or the firstlings of thy herds or of thy flock, nor any of thy vows which thou vowest, nor thy freewill offerings, or heave offering of thine hand:
343	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	12	19		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Take heed to thyself that thou forsake not the Levite as long as thou livest upon the earth.
344	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	12	21		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	If the place which the Lord thy God hath chosen to put his name there be too far from thee, then thou shalt kill of thy herd and of thy flock, which the Lord hath given thee, as I have commanded thee, and thou shalt eat in thy gates whatsoever thy soul lusteth after.
345	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	12	23		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Only be sure that thou eat not the blood: for the blood is the life; and thou mayest not eat the life with the flesh.
346	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	12	26		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Only thy holy things which thou hast, and thy vows, thou shalt take, and go unto the place which the Lord shall choose:
347	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	12	32		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	What thing soever I command you, observe to do it: thou shalt not add thereto, nor diminish from it.
348	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	13	4		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall walk after the Lord your God, and fear him, and keep his commandments, and obey his voice, and ye shall serve him, and cleave unto him.
349	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	13	8		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not consent unto him, nor hearken unto him; neither shall thine eye pity him, neither shalt thou spare, neither shalt thou conceal him:
350	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	13	11		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And all Israel shall hear, and fear, and shall do no more any such wickedness as this is among you.
351	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	13	15		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt surely smite the inhabitants of that city with the edge of the sword, destroying it utterly, and all that is therein, and the cattle thereof, with the edge of the sword.
352	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	13	16		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And thou shalt gather all the spoil of it into the midst of the street thereof, and shalt burn with fire the city, and all the spoil thereof every whit, for the Lord thy God: and it shall be an heap for ever; it shall not be built again.
353	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	13	17		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And there shall cleave nought of the cursed thing to thine hand: that the Lord may turn from the fierceness of his anger, and shew thee mercy, and have compassion upon thee, and multiply thee, as he hath sworn unto thy fathers;
354	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	14	1		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye are the children of the Lord your God: ye shall not cut yourselves, nor make any baldness between your eyes for the dead.
355	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	14	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not eat any abominable thing.
356	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	14	11		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Of all clean birds ye shall eat.
357	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	14	19		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And every creeping thing that flieth is unclean unto you: they shall not be eaten.
358	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	14	21		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall not eat of any thing that dieth of itself: thou shalt give it unto the stranger that is in thy gates, that he may eat it; or thou mayest sell it unto an alien: for thou art an holy people unto the Lord thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in his mother's milk.
359	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	14	22		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt truly tithe all the increase of thy seed, that the field bringeth forth year by year.
360	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	14	28		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	At the end of three years thou shalt bring forth all the tithe of thine increase the same year, and shalt lay it up within thy gates:
361	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	15	2		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And this is the manner of the release: Every creditor that lendeth ought unto his neighbour shall release it; he shall not exact it of his neighbour, or of his brother; because it is called the Lord'S release.
362	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	15	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Of a foreigner thou mayest exact it again: but that which is thine with thy brother thine hand shall release;
363	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	15	7		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	If there be among you a poor man of one of thy brethren within any of thy gates in thy land which the Lord thy God giveth thee, thou shalt not harden thine heart, nor shut thine hand from thy poor brother:
364	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	15	9		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Beware that there be not a thought in thy wicked heart, saying, The seventh year, the year of release, is at hand; and thine eye be evil against thy poor brother, and thou givest him nought; and he cry unto the Lord against thee, and it be sin unto thee.
365	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	15	11		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	For the poor shall never cease out of the land: therefore I command thee, saying, Thou shalt open thine hand wide unto thy brother, to thy poor, and to thy needy, in thy land.
366	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	15	13		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And when thou sendest him out free from thee, thou shalt not let him go away empty:
367	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	15	14		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt furnish him liberally out of thy flock, and out of thy floor, and out of thy winepress: of that wherewith the Lord thy God hath blessed thee thou shalt give unto him.
368	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	15	19		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	All the firstling males that come of thy herd and of thy flock thou shalt sanctify unto the Lord thy God: thou shalt do no work with the firstling of thy bullock, nor shear the firstling of thy sheep.
369	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	16	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt eat no leavened bread with it; seven days shalt thou eat unleavened bread therewith, even the bread of affliction; for thou camest forth out of the land of Egypt in haste: that thou mayest remember the day when thou camest forth out of the land of Egypt all the days of thy life.
370	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	16	4		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And there shall be no leavened bread seen with thee in all thy coast seven days; neither shall there any thing of the flesh, which thou sacrificedst the first day at even, remain all night until the morning.
371	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	16	14		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And thou shalt rejoice in thy feast, thou, and thy son, and thy daughter, and thy manservant, and thy maidservant, and the Levite, the stranger, and the fatherless, and the widow, that are within thy gates.
372	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	16	16		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Three times in a year shall all thy males appear before the Lord thy God in the place which he shall choose; in the feast of unleavened bread, and in the feast of weeks, and in the feast of tabernacles: and they shall not appear before the Lord empty:
373	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	16	18		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	udges and officers shalt thou make thee in all thy gates, which the Lord thy God giveth thee, throughout thy tribes: and they shall judge the people with just judgment.
374	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	16	21		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not plant thee a grove of any trees near unto the altar of the Lord thy God, which thou shalt make thee.
375	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	16	22		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Neither shalt thou set thee up any image; which the Lord thy God hateth.
376	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	17	1		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not sacrifice unto the Lord thy God any bullock, or sheep, wherein is blemish, or any evilfavouredness: for that is an abomination unto the Lord thy God.
377	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	17	11		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	According to the sentence of the law which they shall teach thee, and according to the judgment which they shall tell thee, thou shalt do: thou shalt not decline from the sentence which they shall shew thee, to the right hand, nor to the left.
378	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	17	15		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt in any wise set him king over thee, whom the Lord thy God shall choose: one from among thy brethren shalt thou set king over thee: thou mayest not set a stranger over thee, which is not thy brother.
379	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	17	16		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But he shall not multiply horses to himself, nor cause the people to return to Egypt, to the end that he should multiply horses: forasmuch as the Lord hath said unto you, Ye shall henceforth return no more that way.
380	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	17	17		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Neither shall he multiply wives to himself, that his heart turn not away: neither shall he greatly multiply to himself silver and gold.
381	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	17	18		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And it shall be, when he sitteth upon the throne of his kingdom, that he shall write him a copy of this law in a book out of that which is before the priests the Levites:
382	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	18	1		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	The priests the Levites, and all the tribe of Levi, shall have no part nor inheritance with Israel: they shall eat the offerings of the Lord made by fire, and his inheritance.
383	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	18	2		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Therefore shall they have no inheritance among their brethren: the Lord is their inheritance, as he hath said unto them.
384	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	18	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And this shall be the priest's due from the people, from them that offer a sacrifice, whether it be ox or sheep; and they shall give unto the priest the shoulder, and the two cheeks, and the maw.
385	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	18	4		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	The firstfruit also of thy corn, of thy wine, and of thine oil, and the first of the fleece of thy sheep, shalt thou give him.
386	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	18	6	8	False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if a Levite come from any of thy gates out of all Israel, where he sojourned, and come with all the desire of his mind unto the place which the Lord shall choose; Then he shall minister in the name of the Lord his God, as all his brethren the Levites do, which stand there before the Lord. They shall have like portions to eat, beside that which cometh of the sale of his patrimony.
387	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	18	10		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	There shall not be found among you any one that maketh his son or his daughter to pass through the fire, or that useth divination, or an observer of times, or an enchanter, or a witch,
388	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	18	11		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Or a charmer, or a consulter with familiar spirits, or a wizard, or a necromancer.
389	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	18	15		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	The Lord thy God will raise up unto thee a Prophet from the midst of thee, of thy brethren, like unto me; unto him ye shall hearken;
390	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	18	20		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But the prophet, which shall presume to speak a word in my name, which I have not commanded him to speak, or that shall speak in the name of other gods, even that prophet shall die.
391	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	18	22		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	When a prophet speaketh in the name of the Lord, if the thing follow not, nor come to pass, that is the thing which the Lord hath not spoken, but the prophet hath spoken it presumptuously: thou shalt not be afraid of him.
392	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	19	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt prepare thee a way, and divide the coasts of thy land, which the Lord thy God giveth thee to inherit, into three parts, that every slayer may flee thither.
393	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	19	13		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thine eye shall not pity him, but thou shalt put away the guilt of innocent blood from Israel, that it may go well with thee.
394	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	19	14		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not remove thy neighbour's landmark, which they of old time have set in thine inheritance, which thou shalt inherit in the land that the Lord thy God giveth thee to possess it.
395	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	19	15		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	One witness shall not rise up against a man for any iniquity, or for any sin, in any sin that he sinneth: at the mouth of two witnesses, or at the mouth of three witnesses, shall the matter be established.
396	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	19	19		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Then shall ye do unto him, as he had thought to have done unto his brother: so shalt thou put the evil away from among you.
397	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	20	2		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And it shall be, when ye are come nigh unto the battle, that the priest shall approach and speak unto the people,
398	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	20	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And shall say unto them, Hear, O Israel, ye approach this day unto battle against your enemies: let not your hearts faint, fear not, and do not tremble, neither be ye terrified because of them;
399	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	20	10		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	When thou comest nigh unto a city to fight against it, then proclaim peace unto it.
400	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	20	16		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But of the cities of these people, which the Lord thy God doth give thee for an inheritance, thou shalt save alive nothing that breatheth:
401	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	20	17		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But thou shalt utterly destroy them; namely, the Hittites, and the Amorites, the Canaanites, and the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites; as the Lord thy God hath commanded thee:
402	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	20	19		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	When thou shalt besiege a city a long time, in making war against it to take it, thou shalt not destroy the trees thereof by forcing an axe against them: for thou mayest eat of them, and thou shalt not cut them down (for the tree of the field is man's life) to employ them in the siege:
403	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	21	4		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And the elders of that city shall bring down the heifer unto a rough valley, which is neither eared nor sown, and shall strike off the heifer's neck there in the valley:
404	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	21	11		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And seest among the captives a beautiful woman, and hast a desire unto her, that thou wouldest have her to thy wife;
405	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	21	14		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And it shall be, if thou have no delight in her, then thou shalt let her go whither she will; but thou shalt not sell her at all for money, thou shalt not make merchandise of her, because thou hast humbled her.
406	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	21	20		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And they shall say unto the elders of his city, This our son is stubborn and rebellious, he will not obey our voice; he is a glutton, and a drunkard.
407	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	21	22		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if a man have committed a sin worthy of death, and he be to be put to death, and thou hang him on a tree:
408	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	21	23		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	His body shall not remain all night upon the tree, but thou shalt in any wise bury him that day; (for he that is hanged is accursed of God;) that thy land be not defiled, which the Lord thy God giveth thee for an inheritance.
409	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	22	1		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not see thy brother's ox or his sheep go astray, and hide thyself from them: thou shalt in any case bring them again unto thy brother.
410	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	22	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	In like manner shalt thou do with his ass; and so shalt thou do with his raiment; and with all lost thing of thy brother's, which he hath lost, and thou hast found, shalt thou do likewise: thou mayest not hide thyself.
411	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	22	4		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not see thy brother's ass or his ox fall down by the way, and hide thyself from them: thou shalt surely help him to lift them up again.
412	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	22	5		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	The woman shall not wear that which pertaineth unto a man, neither shall a man put on a woman's garment: for all that do so are abomination unto the Lord thy God.
413	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	22	6		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	If a bird's nest chance to be before thee in the way in any tree, or on the ground, whether they be young ones, or eggs, and the dam sitting upon the young, or upon the eggs, thou shalt not take the dam with the young:
414	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	22	7		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But thou shalt in any wise let the dam go, and take the young to thee; that it may be well with thee, and that thou mayest prolong thy days.
415	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	22	8		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	When thou buildest a new house, then thou shalt make a battlement for thy roof, that thou bring not blood upon thine house, if any man fall from thence.
416	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	22	9		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not sow thy vineyard with divers seeds: lest the fruit of thy seed which thou hast sown, and the fruit of thy vineyard, be defiled.
417	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	22	10		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not plow with an ox and an ass together.
418	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	22	11		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not wear a garment of divers sorts, as of woollen and linen together.
419	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	22	19		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And they shall amerce him in an hundred shekels of silver, and give them unto the father of the damsel, because he hath brought up an evil name upon a virgin of Israel: and she shall be his wife; he may not put her away all his days.
420	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	22	24		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Then ye shall bring them both out unto the gate of that city, and ye shall stone them with stones that they die; the damsel, because she cried not, being in the city; and the man, because he hath humbled his neighbour's wife: so thou shalt put away evil from among you.
421	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	22	26		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But unto the damsel thou shalt do nothing; there is in the damsel no sin worthy of death: for as when a man riseth against his neighbour, and slayeth him, even so is this matter:
422	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	22	29		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Then the man that lay with her shall give unto the damsel's father fifty shekels of silver, and she shall be his wife; because he hath humbled her, he may not put her away all his days.
423	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	23	1		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	He that is wounded in the stones, or hath his privy member cut off, shall not enter into the congregation of the Lord.
424	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	23	2		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	A bastard shall not enter into the congregation of the Lord; even to his tenth generation shall he not enter into the congregation of the Lord.
425	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	23	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	An Ammonite or Moabite shall not enter into the congregation of the Lord; even to their tenth generation shall they not enter into the congregation of the Lord for ever:
426	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	23	6		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not seek their peace nor their prosperity all thy days for ever.
427	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	23	7	8	False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not abhor an Edomite; for he is thy brother: thou shalt not abhor an Egyptian; because thou wast a stranger in his land. The children that are begotten of them shall enter into the congregation of the Lord in their third generation.
428	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	23	10		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	If there be among you any man, that is not clean by reason of uncleanness that chanceth him by night, then shall he go abroad out of the camp, he shall not come within the camp:
429	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	23	12		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt have a place also without the camp, whither thou shalt go forth abroad:
430	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	23	13		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And thou shalt have a paddle upon thy weapon; and it shall be, when thou wilt ease thyself abroad, thou shalt dig therewith, and shalt turn back and cover that which cometh from thee:
431	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	23	15		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not deliver unto his master the servant which is escaped from his master unto thee:
432	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	23	16		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	He shall dwell with thee, even among you, in that place which he shall choose in one of thy gates, where it liketh him best: thou shalt not oppress him.
433	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	23	17		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	There shall be no whore of the daughters of Israel, nor a sodomite of the sons of Israel.
434	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	23	18		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not bring the hire of a whore, or the price of a dog, into the house of the Lord thy God for any vow: for even both these are abomination unto the Lord thy God.
435	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	23	19		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not lend upon usury to thy brother; usury of money, usury of victuals, usury of any thing that is lent upon usury:
436	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	23	20		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Unto a stranger thou mayest lend upon usury; but unto thy brother thou shalt not lend upon usury: that the Lord thy God may bless thee in all that thou settest thine hand to in the land whither thou goest to possess it.
437	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	23	21		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	When thou shalt vow a vow unto the Lord thy God, thou shalt not slack to pay it: for the Lord thy God will surely require it of thee; and it would be sin in thee.
438	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	23	23		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	That which is gone out of thy lips thou shalt keep and perform; even a freewill offering, according as thou hast vowed unto the Lord thy God, which thou hast promised with thy mouth.
439	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	23	24		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	When thou comest into thy neighbour's vineyard, then thou mayest eat grapes thy fill at thine own pleasure; but thou shalt not put any in thy vessel.
440	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	23	25		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	When thou comest into the standing corn of thy neighbour, then thou mayest pluck the ears with thine hand; but thou shalt not move a sickle unto thy neighbour's standing corn.
441	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	24	1		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	When a man hath taken a wife, and married her, and it come to pass that she find no favour in his eyes, because he hath found some uncleanness in her: then let him write her a bill of divorcement, and give it in her hand, and send her out of his house.
442	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	24	4		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Her former husband, which sent her away, may not take her again to be his wife, after that she is defiled; for that is abomination before the Lord: and thou shalt not cause the land to sin, which the Lord thy God giveth thee for an inheritance.
443	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	24	5		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	When a man hath taken a new wife, he shall not go out to war, neither shall he be charged with any business: but he shall be free at home one year, and shall cheer up his wife which he hath taken.
444	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	24	6		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	No man shall take the nether or the upper millstone to pledge: for he taketh a man's life to pledge.
445	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	24	8		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Take heed in the plague of leprosy, that thou observe diligently, and do according to all that the priests the Levites shall teach you: as I commanded them, so ye shall observe to do.
446	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	24	10		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	When thou dost lend thy brother any thing, thou shalt not go into his house to fetch his pledge.
447	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	24	12		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if the man be poor, thou shalt not sleep with his pledge:
448	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	24	13		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	In any case thou shalt deliver him the pledge again when the sun goeth down, that he may sleep in his own raiment, and bless thee: and it shall be righteousness unto thee before the Lord thy God.
449	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	24	15		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	At his day thou shalt give him his hire, neither shall the sun go down upon it; for he is poor, and setteth his heart upon it: lest he cry against thee unto the Lord, and it be sin unto thee.
450	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	24	16		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	The fathers shall not be put to death for the children, neither shall the children be put to death for the fathers: every man shall be put to death for his own sin.
451	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	24	17		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not pervert the judgment of the stranger, nor of the fatherless; nor take a widow's raiment to pledge:
452	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	24	19		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	When thou cuttest down thine harvest in thy field, and hast forgot a sheaf in the field, thou shalt not go again to fetch it: it shall be for the stranger, for the fatherless, and for the widow: that the Lord thy God may bless thee in all the work of thine hands.
453	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	25	2		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And it shall be, if the wicked man be worthy to be beaten, that the judge shall cause him to lie down, and to be beaten before his face, according to his fault, by a certain number.
454	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	25	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Forty stripes he may give him, and not exceed: lest, if he should exceed, and beat him above these with many stripes, then thy brother should seem vile unto thee.
455	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	25	4		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not muzzle the ox when he treadeth out the corn.
456	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	25	5		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	If brethren dwell together, and one of them die, and have no child, the wife of the dead shall not marry without unto a stranger: her husband's brother shall go in unto her, and take her to him to wife, and perform the duty of an husband's brother unto her.
457	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	25	9		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Then shall his brother's wife come unto him in the presence of the elders, and loose his shoe from off his foot, and spit in his face, and shall answer and say, So shall it be done unto that man that will not build up his brother's house.
458	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	25	12		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Then thou shalt cut off her hand, thine eye shall not pity her.
459	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	25	13		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou shalt not have in thy bag divers weights, a great and a small.
460	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	25	17		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Remember what Amalek did unto thee by the way, when ye were come forth out of Egypt;
461	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	25	19		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Therefore it shall be, when the Lord thy God hath given thee rest from all thine enemies round about, in the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee for an inheritance to possess it, that thou shalt blot out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven; thou shalt not forget it.
462	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	26	5		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And thou shalt speak and say before the Lord thy God, A Syrian ready to perish was my father, and he went down into Egypt, and sojourned there with a few, and became there a nation, great, mighty, and populous:
463	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	26	13		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Then thou shalt say before the Lord thy God, I have brought away the hallowed things out of mine house, and also have given them unto the Levite, and unto the stranger, to the fatherless, and to the widow, according to all thy commandments which thou hast commanded me: I have not transgressed thy commandments, neither have I forgotten them:
464	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	26	14		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	I have not eaten thereof in my mourning, neither have I taken away ought thereof for any unclean use, nor given ought thereof for the dead: but I have hearkened to the voice of the Lord my God, and have done according to all that thou hast commanded me.
465	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	28	9		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	The Lord shall establish thee an holy people unto himself, as he hath sworn unto thee, if thou shalt keep the commandments of the Lord thy God, and walk in his ways.
466	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	31	12		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Gather the people together, men, and women, and children, and thy stranger that is within thy gates, that they may hear, and that they may learn, and fear the Lord your God, and observe to do all the words of this law:
467	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	31	19		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Now therefore write ye this song for you, and teach it the children of Israel: put it in their mouths, that this song may be a witness for me against the children of Israel.
468	Mosaic	Deuteronomy	5	32	38		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Which did eat the fat of their sacrifices, and drank the wine of their drink offerings? let them rise up and help you, and be your protection.
469	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
470	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	4		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted.
471	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	5		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth.
472	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	6		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled.
473	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	7		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy.
474	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	8		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God.
475	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	9		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God.
476	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	10		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
477	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	11		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake.
478	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	12		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Rejoice, and be exceeding glad: for great is your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you.
479	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	13		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye are the salt of the earth: but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted? it is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men.
480	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	14		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid.
481	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	15		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house.
482	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	16		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.
483	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	17		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Think not that I am come to destroy the law, or the prophets: I am not come to destroy, but to fulfil.
484	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	18		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	For verily I say unto you, Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled.
485	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	19		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Whosoever therefore shall break one of these least commandments, and shall teach men so, he shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven: but whosoever shall do and teach them, the same shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven.
486	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	20		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	For I say unto you, That except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven.
487	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	21		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt not kill; and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment:
488	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	22		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But I say unto you, That whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment: and whosoever shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be in danger of the council: but whosoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger of hell fire.
489	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	23		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Therefore if thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath ought against thee;
490	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	24		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way; first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift.
491	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	25		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Agree with thine adversary quickly, whiles thou art in the way with him; lest at any time the adversary deliver thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and thou be cast into prison.
492	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	26		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	erily I say unto thee, Thou shalt by no means come out thence, till thou hast paid the uttermost farthing.
493	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	27		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt not commit adultery:
494	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	28		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But I say unto you, That whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart.
495	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	29		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast it from thee: for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell.
496	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	30		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if thy right hand offend thee, cut it off, and cast it from thee: for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell.
497	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	31		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	It hath been said, Whosoever shall put away his wife, let him give her a writing of divorcement:
498	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	32		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But I say unto you, That whosoever shall put away his wife, saving for the cause of fornication, causeth her to commit adultery: and whosoever shall marry her that is divorced committeth adultery.
499	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	33		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Again, ye have heard that it hath been said by them of old time, Thou shalt not forswear thyself, but shalt perform unto the Lord thine oaths:
500	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	34		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But I say unto you, Swear not at all; neither by heaven; for it is God's throne:
501	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	35		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Nor by the earth; for it is his footstool: neither by Jerusalem; for it is the city of the great King.
502	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	36		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Neither shalt thou swear by thy head, because thou canst not make one hair white or black.
503	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	37		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But let your communication be, Yea, yea; Nay, nay: for whatsoever is more than these cometh of evil.
504	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	38		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye have heard that it hath been said, An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth:
505	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	39		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But I say unto you, That ye resist not evil: but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also.
506	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	40		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if any man will sue thee at the law, and take away thy coat, let him have thy cloke also.
507	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	41		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain.
508	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	42		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Give to him that asketh thee, and from him that would borrow of thee turn not thou away.
509	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	43		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbour, and hate thine enemy.
510	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	44		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you;
511	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	45		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven: for he maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust.
512	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	46		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? do not even the publicans the same?
513	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	47		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if ye salute your brethren only, what do ye more than others? do not even the publicans so?
514	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	5	48		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect.
515	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	1		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Take heed that ye do not your alms before men, to be seen of them: otherwise ye have no reward of your Father which is in heaven.
516	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	2		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Therefore when thou doest thine alms, do not sound a trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have glory of men. Verily I say unto you, They have their reward.
517	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth:
518	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	4		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	That thine alms may be in secret: and thy Father which seeth in secret himself shall reward thee openly.
519	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	5		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are: for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, They have their reward.
520	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	6		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret; and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly.
521	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	7		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen do: for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking.
522	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	8		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Be not ye therefore like unto them: for your Father knoweth what things ye have need of, before ye ask him.
523	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	9		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	After this manner therefore pray ye: Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name.
524	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	10		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven.
525	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	11		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Give us this day our daily bread.
526	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	12		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors.
527	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	13		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil: For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever. Amen.
528	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	14		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you:
529	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	15		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.
530	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	16		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Moreover when ye fast, be not, as the hypocrites, of a sad countenance: for they disfigure their faces, that they may appear unto men to fast. Verily I say unto you, They have their reward.
531	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	17		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thine head, and wash thy face;
532	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	18		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	That thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy Father which is in secret: and thy Father, which seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly.
533	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	19		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal:
534	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	20		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal:
535	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	21		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
536	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	22		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	The light of the body is the eye: if therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light.
537	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	23		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness!
538	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	24		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	No man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon.
539	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	25		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than meat, and the body than raiment?
540	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	26		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Behold the fowls of the air: for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns; yet your heavenly Father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they?
541	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	27		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Which of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto his stature?
542	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	28		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin:
543	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	29		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And yet I say unto you, That even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.
544	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	30		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field, which to day is, and to morrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith?
545	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	31		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat? or, What shall we drink? or, Wherewithal shall we be clothed?
546	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	32		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	For after all these things do the Gentiles seek:) for your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things.
547	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	33		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you.
548	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	6	34		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Take therefore no thought for the morrow: for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.
549	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	1		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	udge not, that ye be not judged.
550	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	2		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged: and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again.
551	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?
552	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	4		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, Let me pull out the mote out of thine eye; and, behold, a beam is in thine own eye?
553	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	5		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own eye; and then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the mote out of thy brother's eye.
554	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	6		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Give not that which is holy unto the dogs, neither cast ye your pearls before swine, lest they trample them under their feet, and turn again and rend you.
555	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	7		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you:
556	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	8		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened.
557	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	9		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Or what man is there of you, whom if his son ask bread, will he give him a stone?
558	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	10		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent?
559	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	11		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him?
560	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	12		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets.
561	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	13		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Enter ye in at the strait gate: for wide is the gate, and broad is the way, that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which go in thereat:
562	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	14		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Because strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it.
563	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	15		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Beware of false prophets, which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves.
564	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	16		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?
565	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	17		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit; but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit.
566	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	18		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit.
567	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	19		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire.
568	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	20		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them.
569	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	21		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven.
570	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	22		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? and in thy name have cast out devils? and in thy name done many wonderful works?
571	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	23		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you: depart from me, ye that work iniquity.
572	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	24		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock:
573	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	25		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock.
574	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	26		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand:
575	Sermon on the mount	Matthew	40	7	27		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell: and great was the fall of it.
576	Quran			2	42		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And do not mix truth with falsehood, and do not conceal the truth while you know.
577	Quran			2	44		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Do you command people to virtuous conduct, and forget yourselves, even though you read the Scripture? Do you not understand?
578	Quran			2	60		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And recall when Moses prayed for water for his people. We said, Strike the rock with your staff. Thereupon twelve springs gushed out from it, and each tribe recognized its drinking-place. Eat and drink from Gods provision, and do not corrupt the earth with disobedience.
579	Quran			2	114		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Who is more unjust than him who forbids the remembrance of Gods name in places of worship, and contributes to their ruin? These ought not to enter them except in fear. For them is disgrace in this world, and for them is a terrible punishment in the Hereafter.
580	Quran			2	170		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And when it is said to them, Follow what God has revealed, they say, We will follow what we found our ancestors following. Even if their ancestors understood nothing, and were not guided?
581	Quran			2	177		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Righteousness does not consist of turning your faces towards the East and the West. But righteous is he who believes in God, and the Last Day, and the angels, and the Scripture, and the prophets. Who gives money, though dear, to near relatives, and orphans, and the needy, and the homeless, and the beggars, and for the freeing of slaves; those who perform the prayers, and pay the obligatory charity, and fulfill their promise when they promise, and patiently persevere in the face of persecution, hardship, and in the time of conflict. These are the sincere; these are the pious.
582	Quran			2	188		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And do not consume one anothers wealth by unjust means, nor offer it as bribes to the officials in order to consume part of other peoples wealth illicitly, while you know.
583	Quran			2	190		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And fight in the cause of God those who fight you, but do not commit aggression; God does not love the aggressors.
584	Quran			2	220		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	About this world and the next. And they ask you about orphans. Say, Improvement for them is best. And if you intermix with them, then they are your brethren. God knows the dishonest from the honest. Had God willed, He could have overburdened you. God is Mighty and Wise.
585	Quran			2	222		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And they ask you about menstruation: say, It is harmful, so keep away from women during menstruation. And do not approach them until they have become pure. Once they have become pure, approach them in the way God has directed you. God loves the repentant, and He loves those who keep clean.
586	Quran			2	247		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Their prophet said to them, God has appointed Saul to be your king. They said, How can he have authority over us, when we are more worthy of authority than he, and he was not given plenty of wealth? He said, God has chosen him over you, and has increased him in knowledge and stature. God bestows His sovereignty upon whomever He wills. God is Embracing and Knowing.
587	Quran			2	256		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	There shall be no compulsion in religion; the right way has become distinct from the wrong way. Whoever renounces evil and believes in God has grasped the most trustworthy handle; which does not break. God is Hearing and Knowing.
588	Quran			2	264		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	O you who believe! Do not nullify your charitable deeds with reminders and hurtful words, like him who spends his wealth to be seen by the people, and does not believe in God and the Last Day. His likeness is that of a smooth rock covered with soil: a downpour strikes it, and leaves it barethey gain nothing from their efforts. God does not guide the disbelieving people.
589	Quran			2	273		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	It is for the poor; those who are restrained in the way of God, and unable to travel in the land. The unaware would think them rich, due to their dignity. You will recognize them by their features. They do not ask from people insistently. Whatever charity you give, God is aware of it.
590	Quran			2	275		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Those who swallow usury will not rise, except as someone driven mad by Satan's touch. That is because they say, Commerce is like usury. But God has permitted commerce, and has forbidden usury. Whoever, on receiving advice from his Lord, refrains, may keep his past earnings, and his case rests with God. But whoever resumesthese are the dwellers of the Fire, wherein they will abide forever.
591	Quran			2	280		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But if he is in hardship, then deferment until a time of ease. But to remit it as charity is better for you, if you only knew.
592	Quran			2	282		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	O you who believe! When you incur debt among yourselves for a certain period of time, write it down. And have a scribe write in your presence, in all fairness. And let no scribe refuse to write, as God has taught him. So let him write, and let the debtor dictate. And let him fear God, his Lord, and diminish nothing from it. But if the debtor is mentally deficient, or weak, or unable to dictate, then let his guardian dictate with honesty. And call to witness two men from among you. If two men are not available, then one man and two women whose testimony is acceptable to allif one of them fails to remember, the other would remind her. Witnesses must not refuse when called upon. And do not think it too trivial to write down, whether small or large, including the time of repayment. That is more equitable with God, and stronger as evidence, and more likely to prevent doubtexcept in the case of a spot transaction between youthen there is no blame on you if you do not write it down. And let there be witnesses whenever you conclude a contract, and let no harm be done to either scribe or witness. If you do that, it is corruption on your part. And fear God. God teaches you. God is aware of everything.
593	Quran			2	283		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	If you are on a journey, and cannot find a scribe, then a security deposit should be handed over. But if you trust one another, let the trustee fulfill his trust, and let him fear God, his Lord. And do not conceal testimony. Whoever conceals it is sinner at heart. God is aware of what you do.
594	Quran			2	285		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	The Messenger has believed in what was revealed to him from his Lord, as did the believers. They all have believed in God, and His angels, and His scriptures, and His messengers: We make no distinction between any of His messengers. And they say, We hear and we obey. Your forgiveness, our Lord. To you is the destiny.
595	Quran			2	286		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	God does not burden any soul beyond its capacity. To its credit is what it earns, and against it is what it commits. Our Lord, do not condemn us if we forget or make a mistake. Our Lord, do not burden us as You have burdened those before us. Our Lord, do not burden us with more than we have strength to bear; and pardon us, and forgive us, and have mercy on us. You are our Lord and Master, so help us against the disbelieving people.
596	Quran			3	103		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And hold fast to the rope of God, altogether, and do not become divided. And remember Gods blessings upon you; how you were enemies, and He reconciled your hearts, and by His grace you became brethren. And you were on the brink of a pit of fire, and He saved you from it. God thus clarifies His revelations for you, so that you may be guided.
597	Quran			3	134		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Those who give in prosperity and adversity, and those who restrain anger, and those who forgive people. God loves the doers of good.
598	Quran			3	135		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And those who, when they commit an indecency or wrong themselves, remember God and ask forgiveness for their sinsand who forgives sins except God? And they do not persist in their wrongdoing while they know.
599	Quran			3	159		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	It is by of grace from God that you were gentle with them. Had you been harsh, hardhearted, they would have dispersed from around you. So pardon them, and ask forgiveness for them, and consult them in the conduct of affairs. And when you make a decision, put your trust in God; God loves the trusting.
600	Quran			3	191		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Those who remember God while standing, and sitting, and on their sides; and they reflect upon the creation of the heavens and the earth: Our Lord, You did not create this in vain, glory to You, so protect us from the punishment of the Fire.
601	Quran			3	195		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And so their Lord answered them: I will not waste the work of any worker among you, whether male or female. You are one of another. For those who emigrated, and were expelled from their homes, and were persecuted because of Me, and fought and were killedI will remit for them their sins, and will admit them into gardens beneath which rivers flowa reward from God. With God is the ultimate reward.
602	Quran			4	7		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Men receive a share of what their parents and relatives leave, and women receive a share of what their parents and relatives leave; be it little or mucha legal share.
603	Quran			4	10		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Those who consume the wealth of orphans illicitly consume only fire into their bellies; and they will roast in a Blaze.
604	Quran			4	23		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Forbidden for you are your mothers, your daughters, your sisters, your paternal aunts, your maternal aunts, your brother's daughters, your sister's daughters, your foster-mothers who nursed you, your sisters through nursing, your wives' mothers, and your stepdaughters in your guardianshipborn of wives you have gone intobut if you have not gone into them, there is no blame on you. And the wives of your genetic sons, and marrying two sisters simultaneously. Except what is past. God is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.
605	Quran			4	29		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	O you who believe! Do not consume each others wealth illicitly, but trade by mutual consent. And do not kill yourselves, for God is Merciful towards you.
606	Quran			4	34		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Men are the protectors and maintainers of women, as God has given some of them an advantage over others, and because they spend out of their wealth. The good women are obedient, guarding what God would have them guard. As for those from whom you fear disloyalty, admonish them, and abandon them in their beds, then strike them. But if they obey you, seek no way against them. God is Sublime, Great.
607	Quran			4	36		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Worship God, and ascribe no partners to Him, and be good to the parents, and the relatives, and the orphans, and the poor, and the neighbor next door, and the distant neighbor, and the close associate, and the traveler, and your servants. God does not love the arrogant showoff.
608	Quran			4	37		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Those who are stingy, and exhort people to stinginess, and conceal what God has given them from His bounty. We have prepared for the disbelievers a disgraceful punishment.
609	Quran			4	54		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Or do they envy the people for what God has given them of His grace? We have given the family of Abraham the Book and wisdom, and We have given them a great kingdom.
610	Quran			4	58		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	God instructs you to give back things entrusted to you to their owners. And when you judge between people, judge with justice. Gods instructions to you are excellent. God is All-Hearing, All-Seeing.
611	Quran			4	105		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	We have revealed to you the Scripture, with the truth, so that you judge between people in accordance with what God has shown you. And do not be an advocate for the traitors.
612	Quran			4	135		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	O you who believe! Stand firmly for justice, as witnesses to God, even if against yourselves, or your parents, or your relatives. Whether one is rich or poor, God takes care of both. So do not follow your desires, lest you swerve. If you deviate, or turn awaythen God is Aware of what you do.
613	Quran			5	2		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	O you who believe! Do not violate Gods sacraments, nor the Sacred Month, nor the offerings, nor the garlanded, nor those heading for the Sacred House seeking blessings from their Lord and approval. When you have left the pilgrim sanctity, you may hunt. And let not the hatred of people who barred you from the Sacred Mosque incite you to aggression. And cooperate with one another in virtuous conduct and conscience, and do not cooperate with one another in sin and hostility. And fear God. God is severe in punishment.
614	Quran			5	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Prohibited for you are carrion, blood, the flesh of swine, and animals dedicated to other than God; also the flesh of animals strangled, killed violently, killed by a fall, gored to death, mangled by wild animalsexcept what you rescue, and animals sacrificed on altars; and the practice of drawing lots. For it is immoral. Today, those who disbelieve have despaired of your religion, so do not fear them, but fear Me. Today I have perfected your religion for you, and have completed My favor upon you, and have approved Islam as a religion for you. But whoever is compelled by hunger, with no intent of wrongdoingGod is Forgiving and Merciful.
615	Quran			5	8		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	O you who believe! Be upright to God, witnessing with justice; and let not the hatred of a certain people prevent you from acting justly. Adhere to justice, for that is nearer to piety; and fear God. God is informed of what you do.
616	Quran			5	90		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	O you who believe! Intoxicants, gambling, idolatry, and divination are abominations of Satans doing. Avoid them, so that you may prosper.
617	Quran			6	108		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Do not insult those they call upon besides God, lest they insult God out of hostility and ignorance. We made attractive to every community their deeds. Then to their Lord is their return, and He will inform them of what they used to do.
618	Quran			6	152		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And do not come near the property of the orphan, except with the best intentions, until he reaches maturity. And give full weight and full measure, equitably. We do not burden any soul beyond its capacity. And when you speak, be fair, even if it concerns a close relative. And fulfill your covenant with God. All this He has enjoined upon you, so that you may take heed.
619	Quran			7	13		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	He said, Get down from it! It is not for you to act arrogantly in it. Get out! You are one of the lowly!
620	Quran			7	31		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	O Children of Adam! Dress properly at every place of worship, and eat and drink, but do not be excessive. He does not love the excessive.
621	Quran			7	199		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Be tolerant, and command decency, and avoid the ignorant.
622	Quran			8	63		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And He united their hearts. Had you spent everything on earth, you would not have united their hearts, but God united them together. He is Mighty and Wise.
623	Quran			9	6		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And if anyone of the polytheists asks you for protection, give him protection so that he may hear the Word of God; then escort him to his place of safety. That is because they are a people who do not know.
624	Quran			9	108		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Do not stand in it, ever. A mosque founded upon piety from the first day is worthier of your standing in it. In it are men who love to be purified. God loves those who purify themselves.
625	Quran			10	58		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Say, In Gods grace and mercy let them rejoice. That is better than what they hoard.
626	Quran			12	87		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	O my sons, go and inquire about Joseph and his brother, and do not despair of God's comfort. None despairs of God's comfort except the disbelieving people.
627	Quran			13	28		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Those who believe, and whose hearts find comfort in the remembrance of God. Surely, it is in the remembrance of God that hearts find comfort.
628	Quran			13	29		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	For those who believe and do righteous deedsfor them is happiness and a beautiful return.
629	Quran			16	78		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	God brought you out of your mothers wombs, not knowing anything; and He gave you the hearing, and the eyesight, and the brains; that you may give thanks.
630	Quran			16	119		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But towards those who do wrongs in ignorance, and then repent afterwards and reform, your Lord thereafter is Forgiving and Merciful.
631	Quran			16	125		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Invite to the way of your Lord with wisdom and good advice, and debate with them in the most dignified manner. Your Lord is aware of those who stray from His path, and He is aware of those who are guided.
632	Quran			17	15		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Whoever is guidedis guided for his own good. And whoever goes astraygoes astray to his detriment. No burdened soul carries the burdens of another, nor do We ever punish until We have sent a messenger.
633	Quran			17	23		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Your Lord has commanded that you worship none but Him, and that you be good to your parents. If either of them or both of them reach old age with you, do not say to them a word of disrespect, nor scold them, but say to them kind words.
634	Quran			17	29		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And do not keep your hand tied to your neck, nor spread it out fully, lest you end up liable and regretful.
635	Quran			17	31		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And do not kill your children for fear of poverty. We provide for them, and for you. Killing them is a grave sin.
636	Quran			17	32		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And do not come near adultery. It is immoral, and an evil way.
637	Quran			20	44		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But speak to him nicely. Perhaps he will remember, or have some fear.
638	Quran			21	90		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	So We answered him, and gave him John. And We cured his wife for him. They used to vie in doing righteous deeds, and used to call on Us in love and awe, and they used to humble themselves to Us.
639	Quran			23	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Those who avoid nonsense.
640	Quran			23	5		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Those who safeguard their chastity.
641	Quran			24	27		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	O you who believe! Do not enter homes other than your own, until you have asked permission and greeted their occupants. That is better for you, that you may be aware.
642	Quran			24	55		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	God has promised those of you who believe and do righteous deeds, that He will make them successors on earth, as He made those before them successors, and He will establish for them their religionwhich He has approved for themand He will substitute security in place of their fear. They worship Me, never associating anything with Me. But whoever disbelieves after thatthese are the sinners.
643	Quran			24	58		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	O you who believe! Permission must be requested by your servants and those of you who have not reached puberty. On three occasions: before the Dawn Prayer, and at noon when you change your clothes, and after the Evening Prayer. These are three occasions of privacy for you. At other times, it is not wrong for you or them to intermingle with one another. God thus clarifies the revelations for you. God is Knowledgeable and Wise.
644	Quran			25	63		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	The servants of the Merciful are those who walk the earth in humility, and when the ignorant address them, they say, Peace.
645	Quran			28	77		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	But seek, with what God has given you, the Home of the Hereafter, and do not neglect your share of this world. And be charitable, as God has been charitable to you. And do not seek corruption in the land. God does not like the seekers of corruption.
646	Quran			28	88		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And do not invoke with God any other god. There is no god but He. All things perish, except His presence. His is the judgment, and to Him you will be returned.
647	Quran			29	29		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	You approach men, and cut off the way, and commit lewdness in your gatherings. But the only response from his people was to say, Bring upon us Gods punishment, if you are truthful.
648	Quran			31	4		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Those who observe the prayer, and pay the obligatory charity, and are certain of the Hereafter.
649	Quran			31	17		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	O my son, observe the prayer, advocate righteousness, forbid evil, and be patient over what has befallen you. These are of the most honorable traits.
650	Quran			31	19		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And moderate your stride, and lower your voice. The most repulsive of voices is the donkeys voice.
651	Quran			33	33		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And settle in your homes; and do not display yourselves, as in the former days of ignorance. And perform the prayer, and give regular charity, and obey God and His Messenger. God desires to remove all impurity from you, O People of the Household, and to purify you thoroughly.
652	Quran			39	53		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Say, O My servants who have transgressed against themselves: do not despair of Gods mercy, for God forgives all sins. He is indeed the Forgiver, the Clement.
653	Quran			41	34		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Good and evil are not equal. Repel evil with good, and the person who was your enemy becomes like an intimate friend.
654	Quran			42	38		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And those who respond to their Lord, and pray regularly, and conduct their affairs by mutual consultation, and give of what We have provided them.
655	Quran			49	9		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	If two groups of believers fight each other, reconcile between them. But if one group aggresses against the other, fight the aggressing group until it complies with Gods command. Once it has complied, reconcile between them with justice, and be equitable. God loves the equitable.
656	Quran			49	11		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	O you who believe! No people shall ridicule other people, for they may be better than they. Nor shall any women ridicule other women, for they may be better than they. Nor shall you slander one another, nor shall you insult one another with names. Evil is the return to wickedness after having attained faith. Whoever does not repentthese are the wrongdoers.
657	Quran			49	12		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	O you who believe! Avoid most suspicionsome suspicion is sinful. And do not spy on one another, nor backbite one another. Would any of you like to eat the flesh of his dead brother? You would detest it. So remain mindful of God. God is Most Relenting, Most Merciful.
658	Quran			49	13		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	O people! We created you from a male and a female, and made you races and tribes, that you may know one another. The best among you in the sight of God is the most righteous. God is All-Knowing, Well-Experienced.
659	Quran			51	26		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Then he slipped away to his family, and brought a fatted calf.
660	Quran			57	7		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Believe in God and His Messenger, and spend from what He made you inherit. Those among you who believe and give will have a great reward.
661	Quran			57	27		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Then We sent in their wake Our messengers, and followed up with Jesus son of Mary, and We gave him the Gospel, and instilled in the hearts of those who followed him compassion and mercy. But as for the monasticism which they inventedWe did not ordain it for themonly to seek Gods approval. But they did not observe it with its due observance. So We gave those of them who believed their reward, but many of them are sinful.
662	Quran			58	11		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	O you who believe! When you are told to make room in your gatherings, make room; God will make room for you. And when you are told to disperse, disperse. God elevates those among you who believe, and those given knowledge, many steps. God is Aware of what you do.
663	Quran			60	8		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	As for those who have not fought against you for your religion, nor expelled you from your homes, God does not prohibit you from dealing with them kindly and equitably. God loves the equitable.
664	Quran			64	16		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	So be conscious of God as much as you can, and listen, and obey, and give for your own good. He who is protected from his stinginessthese are the prosperous.
665	Quran			90	17		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Then he becomes of those who believe, and advise one another to patience, and advise one another to kindness.
666	Quran			91	10		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Failing is he who corrupts it.
667	Quran			93	10		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Nor rebuff the seeker.
668	Quran			107	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	And does not encourage the feeding of the poor.
669	Last sermon			1	1		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	O People! Lend me an attentive ear, for I know not whether after this year I shall ever be amongst you again. Therefore, listen carefully to what I am saying and take these words to those who could not be present here today.
670	Last sermon			1	2		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	O People! just as you regard this month, this day ,this city as sacred ,so regard the life and property of every Muslim a sacred trust. Return the goods entrusted to you to their rightful owners. Hurt no one so that no one may hurt you. Remember that you will indeed meet your Lord, and that he will indeed reckon your deeds.
671	Last sermon			1	3		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Allah has forbidden you to take usury, therefore all interest obligation shall henceforth be waived. Your capital is yours to keep .You will neither inflict nor suffer any inequality. Allah has judged that there shall be no interest and that all interest due to Abbas Ibn 'Aal-Muttalib be waived.
672	Last sermon			1	4		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Every right arising out of homicide in pre-Islamic days is henceforth waived and the first such right that I waive is that arising from the murder of Rabiah ibni al-Harithiah.
673	Last sermon			1	5		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	O men! the unbelievers indulge in tampering with the calendar in order to make permissible that which Allah forbade, and to prohibit what Allah has made permissible. With Allah the months are twelve in number. Four of them are holy, there are sucessive and one occurs singly between the months of Jumada and Shaban.
674	Last sermon			1	6		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Beware of Satan, for the safety of your religion. He has lost all hope that he will be able to lead you astray in big things so beware of following him in small things.
675	Last sermon			1	7		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	O People it is true that you have certain rights with regard to your women but they also have rights over you. Remember that you have taken them as your wives only under Allah's trust and with His permission. If they abide by your right then to them belongs the right to be fed and clothed in kindness. Do treat your women well and be kind to them for they are your partners and committed helpers. And it is your right that they do not make friends with any one of whom you do not approve, as well never to be unchaste.
676	Last sermon			1	8		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	O People! listen to me in earnest, worship Allah, say your five daily prayers, fast during month of Ramadan, and give your wealth in Zakat .Perform Haj if you can afford it.
677	Last sermon			1	9		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	All mankind is from Adam and Eve, an Arab has no superiority over a non-Arab nor a non-Arab has any superiority over an Arab; also a White has no superiority over a Black nor a Black has any superiority over a White except by piety and good action. Learn that every Muslim is a brother to every Muslim and that the Muslims constitute one brotherhood. Nothing shall be legitimate to a Muslim which belongs to a fellow Muslim unless it was given freely and willingly.
678	Last sermon			1	10		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	Do not therefore do injustice to yourselves. Remember one day you will meet Allah and answer your deeds. So beware, do not astray from the path of righteousness after I am gone.
679	Last sermon			1	11		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	O People! No Prophet or apostle will come after me and no new faith will be born. Reason well, therefore O People! and understand words that I convey to you. I leave behind me two things, the Quran and the Sunnah and if you follow these you will never go astray.
680	Last sermon			1	12		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	All those who listen to me shall pass on my words to others and those to others again; and may the last ones understand my words better than those who listen to me directly.
681	Last sermon			1	13		False	False	False	False	False	False	False	O Allah, be my witness, that I have conveyed your message to Your people.
682	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one ensnare another, putting a ban upon him, but he can not prove it, then he that ensnared him shall be put to death.
683	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one bring an accusation against a man, and the accused go to the river and leap into the river, if he sink in the river his accuser shall take possession of his house. But if the river prove that the accused is not guilty, and he escape unhurt, then he who had brought the accusation shall be put to death, while he who leaped into the river shall take possession of the house that had belonged to his accuser.
684	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one bring an accusation of any crime before the elders, and does not prove what he has charged, he shall, if it be a capital offense charged, be put to death.
685	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he satisfy the elders to impose a fine of grain or money, he shall receive the fine that the action produces.
686	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a judge try a case, reach a decision, and present his judgment in writing; if later error shall appear in his decision, and it be through his own fault, then he shall pay twelve times the fine set by him in the case, and he shall be publicly removed from the judge's bench, and never again shall he sit there to render judgement.
687	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one steal the property of a temple or of the court, he shall be put to death, and also the one who receives the stolen thing from him shall be put to death.
688	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one buy from the son or the slave of another man, without witnesses or a contract, silver or gold, a male or female slave, an ox or a sheep, an ass or anything, or if he take it in charge, he is considered a thief and shall be put to death.
689	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one steal cattle or sheep, or an ass, or a pig or a goat, if it belong to a god or to the court, the thief shall pay thirtyfold therefor; if they belonged to a freed man of the king he shall pay tenfold; if the thief has nothing with which to pay he shall be put to death.
690	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	"If any one lose an article, and find it in the possession of another: if the person in whose possession the thing is found say ""A merchant sold it to me, I paid for it before witnesses,"" and if the owner of the thing say, ""I will bring witnesses who know my property,"" then shall the purchaser bring the merchant who sold it to him, and the witnesses before whom he bought it, and the owner shall bring witnesses who can identify his property. The judge shall examine their testimony--both of the witnesses before whom the price was paid, and of the witnesses who identify the lost article on oath. The merchant is then proved to be a thief and shall be put to death. The owner of the lost article receives his property, and he who bought it receives the money he paid from the estate of the merchant."
691	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If the purchaser does not bring the merchant and the witnesses before whom he bought the article, but its owner bring witnesses who identify it, then the buyer is the thief and shall be put to death, and the owner receives the lost article.
692	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If the owner do not bring witnesses to identify the lost article, he is an evil-doer, he has traduced, and shall be put to death.
693	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If the witnesses be not at hand, then shall the judge set a limit, at the expiration of six months. If his witnesses have not appeared within the six months, he is an evil-doer, and shall bear the fine of the pending case.
694	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one steal the minor son of another, he shall be put to death.
695	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one take a male or female slave of the court, or a male or female slave of a freed man, outside the city gates, he shall be put to death.
696	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one receive into his house a runaway male or female slave of the court, or of a freedman, and does not bring it out at the public proclamation of the major domus, the master of the house shall be put to death.
697	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one find runaway male or female slaves in the open country and bring them to their masters, the master of the slaves shall pay him two shekels of silver.
698	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If the slave will not give the name of the master, the finder shall bring him to the palace; a further investigation must follow, and the slave shall be returned to his master.
699	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he hold the slaves in his house, and they are caught there, he shall be put to death.
700	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If the slave that he caught run away from him, then shall he swear to the owners of the slave, and he is free of all blame.
701	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one break a hole into a house (break in to steal), he shall be put to death before that hole and be buried.
702	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one is committing a robbery and is caught, then he shall be put to death.
703	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If the robber is not caught, then shall he who was robbed claim under oath the amount of his loss; then shall the community, and . . . on whose ground and territory and in whose domain it was compensate him for the goods stolen.
704	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If persons are stolen, then shall the community and . . . pay one mina of silver to their relatives.
705	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If fire break out in a house, and some one who comes to put it out cast his eye upon the property of the owner of the house, and take the property of the master of the house, he shall be thrown into that self-same fire.
706	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a chieftain or a man (common soldier), who has been ordered to go upon the king's highway for war does not go, but hires a mercenary, if he withholds the compensation, then shall this officer or man be put to death, and he who represented him shall take possession of his house.
707	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a chieftain or man be caught in the misfortune of the king (captured in battle), and if his fields and garden be given to another and he take possession, if he return and reaches his place, his field and garden shall be returned to him, he shall take it over again.
708	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a chieftain or a man be caught in the misfortune of a king, if his son is able to enter into possession, then the field and garden shall be given to him, he shall take over the fee of his father.
709	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If his son is still young, and can not take possession, a third of the field and garden shall be given to his mother, and she shall bring him up.
710	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a chieftain or a man leave his house, garden, and field and hires it out, and some one else takes possession of his house, garden, and field and uses it for three years: if the first owner return and claims his house, garden, and field, it shall not be given to him, but he who has taken possession of it and used it shall continue to use it.
711	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he hire it out for one year and then return, the house, garden, and field shall be given back to him, and he shall take it over again.
712	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	"If a chieftain or a man is captured on the ""Way of the King"" (in war), and a merchant buy him free, and bring him back to his place; if he have the means in his house to buy his freedom, he shall buy himself free: if he have nothing in his house with which to buy himself free, he shall be bought free by the temple of his community; if there be nothing in the temple with which to buy him free, the court shall buy his freedom. His field, garden, and house shall not be given for the purchase of his freedom."
713	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	"If a . . . or a . . . enter himself as withdrawn from the ""Way of the King,"" and send a mercenary as substitute, but withdraw him, then the . . . or . . . shall be put to death."
714	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a . . . or a . . . harm the property of a captain, injure the captain, or take away from the captain a gift presented to him by the king, then the . . . or . . . shall be put to death.
715	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one buy the cattle or sheep which the king has given to chieftains from him, he loses his money.
716	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	The field, garden, and house of a chieftain, of a man, or of one subject to quit-rent, can not be sold.
717	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one buy the field, garden, and house of a chieftain, man, or one subject to quit-rent, his contract tablet of sale shall be broken (declared invalid) and he loses his money. The field, garden, and house return to their owners.
718	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	A chieftain, man, or one subject to quit-rent can not assign his tenure of field, house, and garden to his wife or daughter, nor can he assign it for a debt.
719	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	He may, however, assign a field, garden, or house which he has bought, and holds as property, to his wife or daughter or give it for debt.
720	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	He may sell field, garden, and house to a merchant (royal agents) or to any other public official, the buyer holding field, house, and garden for its usufruct.
721	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one fence in the field, garden, and house of a chieftain, man, or one subject to quit-rent, furnishing the palings therefor; if the chieftain, man, or one subject to quit-rent return to field, garden, and house, the palings which were given to him become his property.
722	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one take over a field to till it, and obtain no harvest therefrom, it must be proved that he did no work on the field, and he must deliver grain, just as his neighbor raised, to the owner of the field.
723	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he do not till the field, but let it lie fallow, he shall give grain like his neighbor's to the owner of the field, and the field which he let lie fallow he must plow and sow and return to its owner.
724	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one take over a waste-lying field to make it arable, but is lazy, and does not make it arable, he shall plow the fallow field in the fourth year, harrow it and till it, and give it back to its owner, and for each ten gan (a measure of area) ten gur of grain shall be paid.
725	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man rent his field for tillage for a fixed rental, and receive the rent of his field, but bad weather come and destroy the harvest, the injury falls upon the tiller of the soil.
726	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he do not receive a fixed rental for his field, but lets it on half or third shares of the harvest, the grain on the field shall be divided proportionately between the tiller and the owner.
727	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If the tiller, because he did not succeed in the first year, has had the soil tilled by others, the owner may raise no objection; the field has been cultivated and he receives the harvest according to agreement.
728	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one owe a debt for a loan, and a storm prostrates the grain, or the harvest fail, or the grain does not grow for lack of water; in that year he need not give his creditor any grain, he washes his debt-tablet in water and pays no rent for this year.
729	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one take money from a merchant, and give the merchant a field tillable for corn or sesame and order him to plant corn or sesame in the field, and to harvest the crop; if the cultivator plant corn or sesame in the field, at the harvest the corn or sesame that is in the field shall belong to the owner of the field and he shall pay corn as rent, for the money he received from the merchant, and the livelihood of the cultivator shall he give to the merchant.
730	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he give a cultivated corn-field or a cultivated sesame-field, the corn or sesame in the field shall belong to the owner of the field, and he shall return the money to the merchant as rent.
731	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he have no money to repay, then he shall pay in corn or sesame in place of the money as rent for what he received from the merchant, according to the royal tariff.
732	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If the cultivator do not plant corn or sesame in the field, the debtor's contract is not weakened.
733	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one be too lazy to keep his dam in proper condition, and does not so keep it; if then the dam break and all the fields be flooded, then shall he in whose dam the break occurred be sold for money, and the money shall replace the corn which he has caused to be ruined.
734	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he be not able to replace the corn, then he and his possessions shall be divided among the farmers whose corn he has flooded.
735	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one open his ditches to water his crop, but is careless, and the water flood the field of his neighbor, then he shall pay his neighbor corn for his loss.
736	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man let in the water, and the water overflow the plantation of his neighbor, he shall pay ten gur of corn for every ten gan of land.
737	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a shepherd, without the permission of the owner of the field, and without the knowledge of the owner of the sheep, lets the sheep into a field to graze, then the owner of the field shall harvest his crop, and the shepherd, who had pastured his flock there without permission of the owner of the field, shall pay to the owner twenty gur of corn for every ten gan.
738	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If after the flocks have left the pasture and been shut up in the common fold at the city gate, any shepherd let them into a field and they graze there, this shepherd shall take possession of the field which he has allowed to be grazed on, and at the harvest he must pay sixty gur of corn for every ten gan.
739	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any man, without the knowledge of the owner of a garden, fell a tree in a garden he shall pay half a mina in money.
740	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one give over a field to a gardener, for him to plant it as a garden, if he work at it, and care for it for four years, in the fifth year the owner and the gardener shall divide it, the owner taking his part in charge.
741	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If the gardener has not completed the planting of the field, leaving one part unused, this shall be assigned to him as his.
742	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he do not plant the field that was given over to him as a garden, if it be arable land (for corn or sesame) the gardener shall pay the owner the produce of the field for the years that he let it lie fallow, according to the product of neighboring fields, put the field in arable condition and return it to its owner.
743	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he transform waste land into arable fields and return it to its owner, the latter shall pay him for one year ten gur for ten gan.
744	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one hand over his garden to a gardener to work, the gardener shall pay to its owner two-thirds of the produce of the garden, for so long as he has it in possession, and the other third shall he keep.
745	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If the gardener do not work in the garden and the product fall off, the gardener shall pay in proportion to other neighboring gardens. [Here a portion of the text is missing, apparently comprising thirty-four paragraphs.]
746	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	. . . interest for the money, as much as he has received, he shall give a note therefor, and on the day, when they settle, pay to the merchant.
747	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If there are no mercantile arrangements in the place whither he went, he shall leave the entire amount of money which he received with the broker to give to the merchant.
748	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a merchant entrust money to an agent (broker) for some investment, and the broker suffer a loss in the place to which he goes, he shall make good the capital to the merchant.
749	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If, while on the journey, an enemy take away from him anything that he had, the broker shall swear by God and be free of obligation.
750	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a merchant give an agent corn, wool, oil, or any other goods to transport, the agent shall give a receipt for the amount, and compensate the merchant therefor. Then he shall obtain a receipt form the merchant for the money that he gives the merchant.
751	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If the agent is careless, and does not take a receipt for the money which he gave the merchant, he can not consider the unreceipted money as his own.
752	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If the agent accept money from the merchant, but have a quarrel with the merchant (denying the receipt), then shall the merchant swear before God and witnesses that he has given this money to the agent, and the agent shall pay him three times the sum.
753	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If the merchant cheat the agent, in that as the latter has returned to him all that had been given him, but the merchant denies the receipt of what had been returned to him, then shall this agent convict the merchant before God and the judges, and if he still deny receiving what the agent had given him shall pay six times the sum to the agent.
754	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a tavern-keeper (feminine) does not accept corn according to gross weight in payment of drink, but takes money, and the price of the drink is less than that of the corn, she shall be convicted and thrown into the water.
755	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If conspirators meet in the house of a tavern-keeper, and these conspirators are not captured and delivered to the court, the tavern-keeper shall be put to death.
756	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	"If a ""sister of a god"" open a tavern, or enter a tavern to drink, then shall this woman be burned to death."
757	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If an inn-keeper furnish sixty ka of usakani-drink to . . . she shall receive fifty ka of corn at the harvest.
758	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one be on a journey and entrust silver, gold, precious stones, or any movable property to another, and wish to recover it from him; if the latter do not bring all of the property to the appointed place, but appropriate it to his own use, then shall this man, who did not bring the property to hand it over, be convicted, and he shall pay fivefold for all that had been entrusted to him.
759	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one have consignment of corn or money, and he take from the granary or box without the knowledge of the owner, then shall he who took corn without the knowledge of the owner out of the granary or money out of the box be legally convicted, and repay the corn he has taken. And he shall lose whatever commission was paid to him, or due him.
760	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man have no claim on another for corn and money, and try to demand it by force, he shall pay one-third of a mina of silver in every case.
761	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one have a claim for corn or money upon another and imprison him; if the prisoner die in prison a natural death, the case shall go no further.
762	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If the prisoner die in prison from blows or maltreatment, the master of the prisoner shall convict the merchant before the judge. If he was a free-born man, the son of the merchant shall be put to death; if it was a slave, he shall pay one-third of a mina of gold, and all that the master of the prisoner gave he shall forfeit.
763	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one fail to meet a claim for debt, and sell himself, his wife, his son, and daughter for money or give them away to forced labor: they shall work for three years in the house of the man who bought them, or the proprietor, and in the fourth year they shall be set free.
764	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he give a male or female slave away for forced labor, and the merchant sublease them, or sell them for money, no objection can be raised.
765	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one fail to meet a claim for debt, and he sell the maid servant who has borne him children, for money, the money which the merchant has paid shall be repaid to him by the owner of the slave and she shall be freed.
766	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one store corn for safe keeping in another person's house, and any harm happen to the corn in storage, or if the owner of the house open the granary and take some of the corn, or if especially he deny that the corn was stored in his house: then the owner of the corn shall claim his corn before God (on oath), and the owner of the house shall pay its owner for all of the corn that he took.
767	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one store corn in another man's house he shall pay him storage at the rate of one gur for every five ka of corn per year.
768	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one give another silver, gold, or anything else to keep, he shall show everything to some witness, draw up a contract, and then hand it over for safe keeping.
769	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he turn it over for safe keeping without witness or contract, and if he to whom it was given deny it, then he has no legitimate claim.
770	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one deliver silver, gold, or anything else to another for safe keeping, before a witness, but he deny it, he shall be brought before a judge, and all that he has denied he shall pay in full.
771	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one place his property with another for safe keeping, and there, either through thieves or robbers, his property and the property of the other man be lost, the owner of the house, through whose neglect the loss took place, shall compensate the owner for all that was given to him in charge. But the owner of the house shall try to follow up and recover his property, and take it away from the thief.
772	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one who has not lost his goods state that they have been lost, and make false claims: if he claim his goods and amount of injury before God, even though he has not lost them, he shall be fully compensated for all his loss claimed. (I.e., the oath is all that is needed.)
773	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	"If any one ""point the finger"" (slander) at a sister of a god or the wife of any one, and can not prove it, this man shall be taken before the judges and his brow shall be marked. (by cutting the skin, or perhaps hair.)"
774	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man take a woman to wife, but have no intercourse with her, this woman is no wife to him.
775	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man's wife be surprised (in flagrante delicto) with another man, both shall be tied and thrown into the water, but the husband may pardon his wife and the king his slaves.
776	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man violate the wife (betrothed or child-wife) of another man, who has never known a man, and still lives in her father's house, and sleep with her and be surprised, this man shall be put to death, but the wife is blameless.
777	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man bring a charge against one's wife, but she is not surprised with another man, she must take an oath and then may return to her house.
778	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	"If the ""finger is pointed"" at a man's wife about another man, but she is not caught sleeping with the other man, she shall jump into the river for her husband."
779	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man is taken prisoner in war, and there is a sustenance in his house, but his wife leave house and court, and go to another house: because this wife did not keep her court, and went to another house, she shall be judicially condemned and thrown into the water.
780	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one be captured in war and there is not sustenance in his house, if then his wife go to another house this woman shall be held blameless.
781	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man be taken prisoner in war and there be no sustenance in his house and his wife go to another house and bear children; and if later her husband return and come to his home: then this wife shall return to her husband, but the children follow their father.
782	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one leave his house, run away, and then his wife go to another house, if then he return, and wishes to take his wife back: because he fled from his home and ran away, the wife of this runaway shall not return to her husband.
783	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man wish to separate from a woman who has borne him children, or from his wife who has borne him children: then he shall give that wife her dowry, and a part of the usufruct of field, garden, and property, so that she can rear her children. When she has brought up her children, a portion of all that is given to the children, equal as that of one son, shall be given to her. She may then marry the man of her heart.
784	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man wishes to separate from his wife who has borne him no children, he shall give her the amount of her purchase money and the dowry which she brought from her father's house, and let her go.
785	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If there was no purchase price he shall give her one mina of gold as a gift of release.
786	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he be a freed man he shall give her one-third of a mina of gold.
787	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man's wife, who lives in his house, wishes to leave it, plunges into debt, tries to ruin her house, neglects her husband, and is judicially convicted: if her husband offer her release, she may go on her way, and he gives her nothing as a gift of release. If her husband does not wish to release her, and if he take another wife, she shall remain as servant in her husband's house.
788	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	"If a woman quarrel with her husband, and say: ""You are not congenial to me,"" the reasons for her prejudice must be presented. If she is guiltless, and there is no fault on her part, but he leaves and neglects her, then no guilt attaches to this woman, she shall take her dowry and go back to her father's house."
789	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If she is not innocent, but leaves her husband, and ruins her house, neglecting her husband, this woman shall be cast into the water.
790	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man take a wife and this woman give her husband a maid-servant, and she bear him children, but this man wishes to take another wife, this shall not be permitted to him; he shall not take a second wife.
791	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man take a wife, and she bear him no children, and he intend to take another wife: if he take this second wife, and bring her into the house, this second wife shall not be allowed equality with his wife.
792	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man take a wife and she give this man a maid-servant as wife and she bear him children, and then this maid assume equality with the wife: because she has borne him children her master shall not sell her for money, but he may keep her as a slave, reckoning her among the maid-servants.
793	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If she have not borne him children, then her mistress may sell her for money.
794	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man take a wife, and she be seized by disease, if he then desire to take a second wife he shall not put away his wife, who has been attacked by disease, but he shall keep her in the house which he has built and support her so long as she lives.
795	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If this woman does not wish to remain in her husband's house, then he shall compensate her for the dowry that she brought with her from her father's house, and she may go.
796	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man give his wife a field, garden, and house and a deed therefor, if then after the death of her husband the sons raise no claim, then the mother may bequeath all to one of her sons whom she prefers, and need leave nothing to his brothers.
797	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a woman who lived in a man's house made an agreement with her husband, that no creditor can arrest her, and has given a document therefor: if that man, before he married that woman, had a debt, the creditor can not hold the woman for it. But if the woman, before she entered the man's house, had contracted a debt, her creditor can not arrest her husband therefor.
798	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If after the woman had entered the man's house, both contracted a debt, both must pay the merchant.
799	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If the wife of one man on account of another man has their mates (her husband and the other man's wife) murdered, both of them shall be impaled.
800	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man be guilty of incest with his daughter, he shall be driven from the place (exiled).
801	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man betroth a girl to his son, and his son have intercourse with her, but he (the father) afterward defile her, and be surprised, then he shall be bound and cast into the water (drowned).
802	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man betroth a girl to his son, but his son has not known her, and if then he defile her, he shall pay her half a gold mina, and compensate her for all that she brought out of her father's house. She may marry the man of her heart.
803	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one be guilty of incest with his mother after his father, both shall be burned.
804	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one be surprised after his father with his chief wife, who has borne children, he shall be driven out of his father's house.
805	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	"If any one, who has brought chattels into his father-in-law's house, and has paid the purchase-money, looks for another wife, and says to his father-in-law: ""I do not want your daughter,"" the girl's father may keep all that he had brought."
806	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	"If a man bring chattels into the house of his father-in-law, and pay the ""purchase price"" (for his wife): if then the father of the girl say: ""I will not give you my daughter,"" he shall give him back all that he brought with him."
807	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	"If a man bring chattels into his father-in-law's house and pay the ""purchase price,"" if then his friend slander him, and his father-in-law say to the young husband: ""You shall not marry my daughter,"" the he shall give back to him undiminished all that he had brought with him; but his wife shall not be married to the friend."
808	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man marry a woman, and she bear sons to him; if then this woman die, then shall her father have no claim on her dowry; this belongs to her sons.
809	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	"If a man marry a woman and she bear him no sons; if then this woman die, if the ""purchase price"" which he had paid into the house of his father-in-law is repaid to him, her husband shall have no claim upon the dowry of this woman; it belongs to her father's house."
810	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	"If his father-in-law do not pay back to him the amount of the ""purchase price"" he may subtract the amount of the ""Purchase price"" from the dowry, and then pay the remainder to her father's house."
811	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man give to one of his sons whom he prefers a field, garden, and house, and a deed therefor: if later the father die, and the brothers divide the estate, then they shall first give him the present of his father, and he shall accept it; and the rest of the paternal property shall they divide.
812	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	"If a man take wives for his son, but take no wife for his minor son, and if then he die: if the sons divide the estate, they shall set aside besides his portion the money for the ""purchase price"" for the minor brother who had taken no wife as yet, and secure a wife for him."
813	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man marry a wife and she bear him children: if this wife die and he then take another wife and she bear him children: if then the father die, the sons must not partition the estate according to the mothers, they shall divide the dowries of their mothers only in this way; the paternal estate they shall divide equally with one another.
814	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	"If a man wish to put his son out of his house, and declare before the judge: ""I want to put my son out,"" then the judge shall examine into his reasons. If the son be guilty of no great fault, for which he can be rightfully put out, the father shall not put him out."
815	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he be guilty of a grave fault, which should rightfully deprive him of the filial relationship, the father shall forgive him the first time; but if he be guilty of a grave fault a second time the father may deprive his son of all filial relation.
816	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	"If his wife bear sons to a man, or his maid-servant have borne sons, and the father while still living says to the children whom his maid-servant has borne: ""My sons,"" and he count them with the sons of his wife; if then the father die, then the sons of the wife and of the maid-servant shall divide the paternal property in common. The son of the wife is to partition and choose."
817	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	"If, however, the father while still living did not say to the sons of the maid-servant: ""My sons,"" and then the father dies, then the sons of the maid-servant shall not share with the sons of the wife, but the freedom of the maid and her sons shall be granted. The sons of the wife shall have no right to enslave the sons of the maid; the wife shall take her dowry (from her father), and the gift that her husband gave her and deeded to her (separate from dowry, or the purchase-money paid her father), and live in the home of her husband: so long as she lives she shall use it, it shall not be sold for money. Whatever she leaves shall belong to her children."
818	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If her husband made her no gift, she shall be compensated for her gift, and she shall receive a portion from the estate of her husband, equal to that of one child. If her sons oppress her, to force her out of the house, the judge shall examine into the matter, and if the sons are at fault the woman shall not leave her husband's house. If the woman desire to leave the house, she must leave to her sons the gift which her husband gave her, but she may take the dowry of her father's house. Then she may marry the man of her heart.
819	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If this woman bear sons to her second husband, in the place to which she went, and then die, her earlier and later sons shall divide the dowry between them.
820	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If she bear no sons to her second husband, the sons of her first husband shall have the dowry.
821	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a State slave or the slave of a freed man marry the daughter of a free man, and children are born, the master of the slave shall have no right to enslave the children of the free.
822	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If, however, a State slave or the slave of a freed man marry a man's daughter, and after he marries her she bring a dowry from a father's house, if then they both enjoy it and found a household, and accumulate means, if then the slave die, then she who was free born may take her dowry, and all that her husband and she had earned; she shall divide them into two parts, one-half the master for the slave shall take, and the other half shall the free-born woman take for her children. If the free-born woman had no gift she shall take all that her husband and she had earned and divide it into two parts; and the master of the slave shall take one-half and she shall take the other for her children.
823	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a widow, whose children are not grown, wishes to enter another house (remarry), she shall not enter it without the knowledge of the judge. If she enter another house the judge shall examine the state of the house of her first husband. Then the house of her first husband shall be entrusted to the second husband and the woman herself as managers. And a record must be made thereof. She shall keep the house in order, bring up the children, and not sell the house-hold utensils. He who buys the utensils of the children of a widow shall lose his money, and the goods shall return to their owners.
824	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	"If a ""devoted woman"" or a prostitute to whom her father has given a dowry and a deed therefor, but if in this deed it is not stated that she may bequeath it as she pleases, and has not explicitly stated that she has the right of disposal; if then her father die, then her brothers shall hold her field and garden, and give her corn, oil, and milk according to her portion, and satisfy her. If her brothers do not give her corn, oil, and milk according to her share, then her field and garden shall support her. She shall have the usufruct of field and garden and all that her father gave her so long as she lives, but she can not sell or assign it to others. Her position of inheritance belongs to her brothers."
825	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	"If a ""sister of a god,"" or a prostitute, receive a gift from her father, and a deed in which it has been explicitly stated that she may dispose of it as she pleases, and give her complete disposition thereof: if then her father die, then she may leave her property to whomsoever she pleases. Her brothers can raise no claim thereto."
826	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a father give a present to his daughter--either marriageable or a prostitute unmarriageable)--and then die, then she is to receive a portion as a child from the paternal estate, and enjoy its usufruct so long as she lives. Her estate belongs to her brothers.
827	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a father devote a temple-maid or temple-virgin to God and give her no present: if then the father die, she shall receive the third of a child's portion from the inheritance of her father's house, and enjoy its usufruct so long as she lives. Her estate belongs to her brothers.
828	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a father devote his daughter as a wife of Mardi of Babylon (as in 181), and give her no present, nor a deed; if then her father die, then shall she receive one-third of her portion as a child of her father's house from her brothers, but Marduk may leave her estate to whomsoever she wishes.
829	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man give his daughter by a concubine a dowry, and a husband, and a deed; if then her father die, she shall receive no portion from the paternal estate.
830	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man do not give a dowry to his daughter by a concubine, and no husband; if then her father die, her brother shall give her a dowry according to her father's wealth and secure a husband for her.
831	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man adopt a child and to his name as son, and rear him, this grown son can not be demanded back again.
832	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man adopt a son, and if after he has taken him he injure his foster father and mother, then this adopted son shall return to his father's house.
833	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	The son of a paramour in the palace service, or of a prostitute, can not be demanded back.
834	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If an artizan has undertaken to rear a child and teaches him his craft, he can not be demanded back.
835	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he has not taught him his craft, this adopted son may return to his father's house.
836	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man does not maintain a child that he has adopted as a son and reared with his other children, then his adopted son may return to his father's house.
837	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man, who had adopted a son and reared him, founded a household, and had children, wish to put this adopted son out, then this son shall not simply go his way. His adoptive father shall give him of his wealth one-third of a child's portion, and then he may go. He shall not give him of the field, garden, and house.
838	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	"If a son of a paramour or a prostitute say to his adoptive father or mother: ""You are not my father, or my mother,"" his tongue shall be cut off."
839	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If the son of a paramour or a prostitute desire his father's house, and desert his adoptive father and adoptive mother, and goes to his father's house, then shall his eye be put out.
840	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man give his child to a nurse and the child die in her hands, but the nurse unbeknown to the father and mother nurse another child, then they shall convict her of having nursed another child without the knowledge of the father and mother and her breasts shall be cut off.
841	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a son strike his father, his hands shall be hewn off.
842	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man put out the eye of another man, his eye shall be put out. [ An eye for an eye ]
843	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he break another man's bone, his bone shall be broken.
844	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he put out the eye of a freed man, or break the bone of a freed man, he shall pay one gold mina.
845	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he put out the eye of a man's slave, or break the bone of a man's slave, he shall pay one-half of its value.
846	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man knock out the teeth of his equal, his teeth shall be knocked out. [ A tooth for a tooth ]
847	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he knock out the teeth of a freed man, he shall pay one-third of a gold mina.
848	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one strike the body of a man higher in rank than he, he shall receive sixty blows with an ox-whip in public.
849	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a free-born man strike the body of another free-born man or equal rank, he shall pay one gold mina.
850	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a freed man strike the body of another freed man, he shall pay ten shekels in money.
851	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If the slave of a freed man strike the body of a freed man, his ear shall be cut off.
852	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	"If during a quarrel one man strike another and wound him, then he shall swear, ""I did not injure him wittingly,"" and pay the physicians."
853	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If the man die of his wound, he shall swear similarly, and if he (the deceased) was a free-born man, he shall pay half a mina in money.
854	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he was a freed man, he shall pay one-third of a mina.
855	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man strike a free-born woman so that she lose her unborn child, he shall pay ten shekels for her loss.
856	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If the woman die, his daughter shall be put to death.
857	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a woman of the free class lose her child by a blow, he shall pay five shekels in money.
858	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If this woman die, he shall pay half a mina.
859	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he strike the maid-servant of a man, and she lose her child, he shall pay two shekels in money.
860	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If this maid-servant die, he shall pay one-third of a mina.
861	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a physician make a large incision with an operating knife and cure it, or if he open a tumor (over the eye) with an operating knife, and saves the eye, he shall receive ten shekels in money.
862	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If the patient be a freed man, he receives five shekels.
863	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he be the slave of some one, his owner shall give the physician two shekels.
864	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a physician make a large incision with the operating knife, and kill him, or open a tumor with the operating knife, and cut out the eye, his hands shall be cut off.
865	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a physician make a large incision in the slave of a freed man, and kill him, he shall replace the slave with another slave.
866	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he had opened a tumor with the operating knife, and put out his eye, he shall pay half his value.
867	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a physician heal the broken bone or diseased soft part of a man, the patient shall pay the physician five shekels in money.
868	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he were a freed man he shall pay three shekels.
869	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he were a slave his owner shall pay the physician two shekels.
870	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a veterinary surgeon perform a serious operation on an ass or an ox, and cure it, the owner shall pay the surgeon one-sixth of a shekel as a fee.
871	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he perform a serious operation on an ass or ox, and kill it, he shall pay the owner one-fourth of its value.
872	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a barber, without the knowledge of his master, cut the sign of a slave on a slave not to be sold, the hands of this barber shall be cut off.
873	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	"If any one deceive a barber, and have him mark a slave not for sale with the sign of a slave, he shall be put to death, and buried in his house. The barber shall swear: ""I did not mark him wittingly,"" and shall be guiltless."
874	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a builder build a house for some one and complete it, he shall give him a fee of two shekels in money for each sar of surface.
875	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a builder build a house for some one, and does not construct it properly, and the house which he built fall in and kill its owner, then that builder shall be put to death.
876	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If it kill the son of the owner the son of that builder shall be put to death.
877	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If it kill a slave of the owner, then he shall pay slave for slave to the owner of the house.
878	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If it ruin goods, he shall make compensation for all that has been ruined, and inasmuch as he did not construct properly this house which he built and it fell, he shall re-erect the house from his own means.
879	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a builder build a house for some one, even though he has not yet completed it; if then the walls seem toppling, the builder must make the walls solid from his own means.
880	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a shipbuilder build a boat of sixty gur for a man, he shall pay him a fee of two shekels in money.
881	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a shipbuilder build a boat for some one, and do not make it tight, if during that same year that boat is sent away and suffers injury, the shipbuilder shall take the boat apart and put it together tight at his own expense. The tight boat he shall give to the boat owner.
882	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man rent his boat to a sailor, and the sailor is careless, and the boat is wrecked or goes aground, the sailor shall give the owner of the boat another boat as compensation.
883	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man hire a sailor and his boat, and provide it with corn, clothing, oil and dates, and other things of the kind needed for fitting it: if the sailor is careless, the boat is wrecked, and its contents ruined, then the sailor shall compensate for the boat which was wrecked and all in it that he ruined.
884	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a sailor wreck any one's ship, but saves it, he shall pay the half of its value in money.
885	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man hire a sailor, he shall pay him six gur of corn per year.
886	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a merchantman run against a ferryboat, and wreck it, the master of the ship that was wrecked shall seek justice before God; the master of the merchantman, which wrecked the ferryboat, must compensate the owner for the boat and all that he ruined.
887	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one impresses an ox for forced labor, he shall pay one-third of a mina in money.
888	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one hire oxen for a year, he shall pay four gur of corn for plow-oxen.
889	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	As rent of herd cattle he shall pay three gur of corn to the owner.
890	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one hire an ox or an ass, and a lion kill it in the field, the loss is upon its owner.
891	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one hire oxen, and kill them by bad treatment or blows, he shall compensate the owner, oxen for oxen.
892	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a man hire an ox, and he break its leg or cut the ligament of its neck, he shall compensate the owner with ox for ox.
893	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one hire an ox, and put out its eye, he shall pay the owner one-half of its value.
894	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one hire an ox, and break off a horn, or cut off its tail, or hurt its muzzle, he shall pay one-fourth of its value in money.
895	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one hire an ox, and God strike it that it die, the man who hired it shall swear by God and be considered guiltless.
896	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If while an ox is passing on the street (market) some one push it, and kill it, the owner can set up no claim in the suit (against the hirer).
897	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If an ox be a goring ox, and it shown that he is a gorer, and he do not bind his horns, or fasten the ox up, and the ox gore a free-born man and kill him, the owner shall pay one-half a mina in money.
898	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he kill a man's slave, he shall pay one-third of a mina.
899	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one agree with another to tend his field, give him seed, entrust a yoke of oxen to him, and bind him to cultivate the field, if he steal the corn or plants, and take them for himself, his hands shall be hewn off.
900	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he take the seed-corn for himself, and do not use the yoke of oxen, he shall compensate him for the amount of the seed-corn.
901	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he sublet the man's yoke of oxen or steal the seed-corn, planting nothing in the field, he shall be convicted, and for each one hundred gan he shall pay sixty gur of corn.
902	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If his community will not pay for him, then he shall be placed in that field with the cattle (at work).
903	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one hire a field laborer, he shall pay him eight gur of corn per year.
904	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one hire an ox-driver, he shall pay him six gur of corn per year.
905	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one steal a water-wheel from the field, he shall pay five shekels in money to its owner.
906	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one steal a shadduf (used to draw water from the river or canal) or a plow, he shall pay three shekels in money.
907	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one hire a herdsman for cattle or sheep, he shall pay him eight gur of corn per annum.
908	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one, a cow or a sheep . . .
909	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he kill the cattle or sheep that were given to him, he shall compensate the owner with cattle for cattle and sheep for sheep.
910	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a herdsman, to whom cattle or sheep have been entrusted for watching over, and who has received his wages as agreed upon, and is satisfied, diminish the number of the cattle or sheep, or make the increase by birth less, he shall make good the increase or profit which was lost in the terms of settlement.
911	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If a herdsman, to whose care cattle or sheep have been entrusted, be guilty of fraud and make false returns of the natural increase, or sell them for money, then shall he be convicted and pay the owner ten times the loss.
912	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If the animal be killed in the stable by God ( an accident), or if a lion kill it, the herdsman shall declare his innocence before God, and the owner bears the accident in the stable.
913	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If the herdsman overlook something, and an accident happen in the stable, then the herdsman is at fault for the accident which he has caused in the stable, and he must compensate the owner for the cattle or sheep.
914	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one hire an ox for threshing, the amount of the hire is twenty ka of corn.
915	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he hire an ass for threshing, the hire is twenty ka of corn.
916	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he hire a young animal for threshing, the hire is ten ka of corn.
917	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one hire oxen, cart and driver, he shall pay one hundred and eighty ka of corn per day.
918	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one hire a cart alone, he shall pay forty ka of corn per day.
919	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one hire a day laborer, he shall pay him from the New Year until the fifth month (April to August, when days are long and the work hard) six gerahs in money per day; from the sixth month to the end of the year he shall give him five gerahs per day.
920	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one hire a skilled artizan, he shall pay as wages of the . . . five gerahs, as wages of the potter five gerahs, of a tailor five gerahs, of . . . gerahs, . . . of a ropemaker four gerahs, of . . .. gerahs, of a mason . . . gerahs per day.
921	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one hire a ferryboat, he shall pay three gerahs in money per day.
922	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If he hire a freight-boat, he shall pay two and one-half gerahs per day.
923	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one hire a ship of sixty gur, he shall pay one-sixth of a shekel in money as its hire per day.
924	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one buy a male or female slave, and before a month has elapsed the benu-disease be developed, he shall return the slave to the seller, and receive the money which he had paid.
925	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If any one buy a male or female slave, and a third party claim it, the seller is liable for the claim.
926	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If while in a foreign country a man buy a male or female slave belonging to another of his own country; if when he return home the owner of the male or female slave recognize it: if the male or female slave be a native of the country, he shall give them back without any money.
927	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	If they are from another country, the buyer shall declare the amount of money paid therefor to the merchant, and keep the male or female slave.
928	Hammurabi code						False	True	False	False	False	False	False	"If a slave say to his master: ""You are not my master,"" if they convict him his master shall cut off his ear."
929	Hammurabi code						False	False	True	False	False	False	False	LAWS of justice which Hammurabi, the wise king, established. A righteous law, and pious statute did he teach the land. Hammurabi, the protecting king am I. I have not withdrawn myself from the men, whom Bel gave to me, the rule over whom Marduk gave to me, I was not negligent, but I made them a peaceful abiding-place. I expounded all great difficulties, I made the light shine upon them. With the mighty weapons which Zamama and Ishtar entrusted to me, with the keen vision with which Ea endowed me, with the wisdom that Marduk gave me, I have uprooted the enemy above and below (in north and south), subdued the earth, brought prosperity to the land, guaranteed security to the inhabitants in their homes; a disturber was not permitted. The great gods have called me, I am the salvation-bearing shepherd, whose staff is straight, the good shadow that is spread over my city; on my breast I cherish the inhabitants of the land of Sumer and Akkad; in my shelter I have let them repose in peace; in my deep wisdom have I enclosed them. That the strong might not injure the weak, in order to protect the widows and orphans, I have in Babylon the city where Anu and Bel raise high their head, in E-Sagil, the Temple, whose foundations stand firm as heaven and earth, in order to bespeak justice in the land, to settle all disputes, and heal all injuries, set up these my precious words, written upon my memorial stone, before the image of me, as king of righteousness.
930	Hammurabi code						False	False	True	False	False	False	False	The king who ruleth among the kings of the cities am I. My words are well considered; there is no wisdom like unto mine. By the command of Shamash, the great judge of heaven and earth, let righteousness go forth in the land: by the order of Marduk, my lord, let no destruction befall my monument. In E-Sagil, which I love, let my name be ever repeated; let the oppressed, who has a case at law, come and stand before this my image as king of righteousness; let him read the inscription, and understand my precious words: the inscription will explain his case to him; he will find out what is just, and his heart will be glad, so that he will say:
931	Hammurabi code						False	False	True	False	False	False	False	Hammurabi is a ruler, who is as a father to his subjects, who holds the words of Marduk in reverence, who has achieved conquest for Marduk over the north and south, who rejoices the heart of Marduk, his lord, who has bestowed benefits for ever and ever on his subjects, and has established order in the land.
932	Hammurabi code						False	False	True	False	False	False	False	When he reads the record, let him pray with full heart to Marduk, my lord, and Zarpanit, my lady; and then shall the protecting deities and the gods, who frequent E-Sagil, graciously grant the desires daily presented before Marduk, my lord, and Zarpanit, my lady.
933	Hammurabi code						False	False	True	False	False	False	False	In future time, through all coming generations, let the king, who may be in the land, observe the words of righteousness which I have written on my monument; let him not alter the law of the land which I have given, the edicts which I have enacted; my monument let him not mar. If such a ruler have wisdom, and be able to keep his land in order, he shall observe the words which I have written in this inscription; the rule, statute, and law of the land which I have given; the decisions which I have made will this inscription show him; let him rule his subjects accordingly, speak justice to them, give right decisions, root out the miscreants and criminals from this land, and grant prosperity to his subjects.
934	Hammurabi code						False	False	True	False	False	False	False	Hammurabi, the king of righteousness, on whom Shamash has conferred right (or law) am I. My words are well considered; my deeds are not equaled; to bring low those that were high; to humble the proud, to expel insolence. If a succeeding ruler considers my words, which I have written in this my inscription, if he do not annul my law, nor corrupt my words, nor change my monument, then may Shamash lengthen that king's reign, as he has that of me, the king of righteousness, that he may reign in righteousness over his subjects. If this ruler do not esteem my words, which I have written in my inscription, if he despise my curses, and fear not the curse of God, if he destroy the law which I have given, corrupt my words, change my monument, efface my name, write his name there, or on account of the curses commission another so to do, that man, whether king or ruler, patesi, or commoner, no matter what he be, may the great God (Anu), the Father of the gods, who has ordered my rule, withdraw from him the glory of royalty, break his scepter, curse his destiny. May Bel, the lord, who fixeth destiny, whose command can not be altered, who has made my kingdom great, order a rebellion which his hand can not control; may he let the wind of the overthrow of his habitation blow, may he ordain the years of his rule in groaning, years of scarcity, years of famine, darkness without light, death with seeing eyes be fated to him; may he (Bel) order with his potent mouth the destruction of his city, the dispersion of his subjects, the cutting off of his rule, the removal of his name and memory from the land. May Belit, the great Mother, whose command is potent in E-Kur (the Babylonian Olympus), the Mistress, who harkens graciously to my petitions, in the seat of judgment and decision (where Bel fixes destiny), turn his affairs evil before Bel, and put the devastation of his land, the destruction of his subjects, the pouring out of his life like water into the mouth of King Bel. May Ea, the great ruler, whose fated decrees come to pass, the thinker of the gods, the omniscient, who maketh long the days of my life, withdraw understanding and wisdom from him, lead him to forgetfulness, shut up his rivers at their sources, and not allow corn or sustenance for man to grow in his land. May Shamash, the great Judge of heaven and earth, who supporteth all means of livelihood, Lord of life-courage, shatter his dominion, annul his law, destroy his way, make vain the march of his troops, send him in his visions forecasts of the uprooting of the foundations of his throne and of the destruction of his land. May the condemnation of Shamash overtake him forthwith; may he be deprived of water above among the living, and his spirit below in the earth. May Sin (the Moon-god), the Lord of Heaven, the divine father, whose crescent gives light among the gods, take away the crown and regal throne from him; may he put upon him heavy guilt, great decay, that nothing may be lower than he. May he destine him as fated, days, months and years of dominion filled with sighing and tears, increase of the burden of dominion, a life that is like unto death. May Adad, the lord of fruitfulness, ruler of heaven and earth, my helper, withhold from him rain from heaven, and the flood of water from the springs, destroying his land by famine and want; may he rage mightily over his city, and make his land into flood-hills (heaps of ruined cities). May Zamama, the great warrior, the first-born son of E-Kur, who goeth at my right hand, shatter his weapons on the field of battle, turn day into night for him, and let his foe triumph over him. May Ishtar, the goddess of fighting and war, who unfetters my weapons, my gracious protecting spirit, who loveth my dominion, curse his kingdom in her angry heart; in her great wrath, change his grace into evil, and shatter his weapons on the place of fighting and war. May she create disorder and sedition for him, strike down his warriors, that the earth may drink their blood, and throw down the piles of corpses of his warriors on the field; may she not grant him a life of mercy, deliver him into the hands of his enemies, and imprison him in the land of his enemies. May Nergal, the might among the gods, whose contest is irresistible, who grants me victory, in his great might burn up his subjects like a slender reedstalk, cut off his limbs with his mighty weapons, and shatter him like an earthen image. May Nin-tu, the sublime mistress of the lands, the fruitful mother, deny him a son, vouchsafe him no name, give him no successor among men. May Nin-karak, the daughter of Anu, who adjudges grace to me, cause to come upon his members in E-kur high fever, severe wounds, that can not be healed, whose nature the physician does not understand, which he can not treat with dressing, which, like the bite of death, can not be removed, until they have sapped away his life.
935	Hammurabi code						False	False	True	False	False	False	False	May he lament the loss of his life-power, and may the great gods of heaven and earth, the Anunaki, altogether inflict a curse and evil upon the confines of the temple, the walls of this E-barra (the Sun temple of Sippara), upon his dominion, his land, his warriors, his subjects, and his troops. May Bel curse him with the potent curses of his mouth that can not be altered, and may they come upon him forthwith.
936	US constitution						False	False	False	True	False	False	False	We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America.
937	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	All legislative Powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress of the United States, which shall consist of a Senate and House of Representatives.
938	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The House of Representatives shall be composed of Members chosen every second Year by the People of the several States, and the Electors in each State shall have the Qualifications requisite for Electors of the most numerous Branch of the State Legislature.
939	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	No Person shall be a Representative who shall not have attained to the Age of twenty five Years, and been seven Years a Citizen of the United States, and who shall not, when elected, be an Inhabitant of that State in which he shall be chosen.
940	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	Representatives and direct Taxes shall be apportioned among the several States which may be included within this Union, according to their respective Numbers, which shall be determined by adding to the whole Number of free Persons, including those bound to Service for a Term of Years, and excluding Indians not taxed, three fifths of all other Persons. The actual Enumeration shall be made within three Years after the first Meeting of the Congress of the United States, and within every subsequent Term of ten Years, in such Manner as they shall by Law direct.The Number of Representatives shall not exceed one for every thirty Thousand, but each State shall have at Least one Representative; and until such enumeration shall be made, the State of New Hampshire shall be entitled to chuse three, Massachusetts eight, Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations one, Connecticut five, New-York six, New Jersey four, Pennsylvania eight, Delaware one, Maryland six, Virginia ten, North Carolina five, South Carolina five, and Georgia three.
941	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	When vacancies happen in the Representation from any State, the Executive Authority thereof shall issue Writs of Election to fill such Vacancies.
942	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The House of Representatives shall chuse their Speaker and other Officers;and shall have the sole Power of Impeachment.
943	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators from each State, chosen by the Legislature thereof, for six Years; and each Senator shall have one Vote.
944	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	Immediately after they shall be assembled in Consequence of the first Election, they shall be divided as equally as may be into three Classes. The Seats of the Senators of the first Class shall be vacated at the Expiration of the second Year, of the second Class at the Expiration of the fourth Year, and of the third Class at the Expiration of the sixth Year, so that one third may be chosen every second Year; and if Vacancies happen by Resignation, or otherwise, during the Recess of the Legislature of any State, the Executive thereof may make temporary Appointments until the next Meeting of the Legislature, which shall then fill such Vacancies.
945	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	No Person shall be a Senator who shall not have attained to the Age of thirty Years, and been nine Years a Citizen of the United States, and who shall not, when elected, be an Inhabitant of that State for which he shall be chosen.
946	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The Vice President of the United States shall be President of the Senate, but shall have no Vote, unless they be equally divided.
947	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The Senate shall chuse their other Officers, and also a President pro tempore, in the Absence of the Vice President, or when he shall exercise the Office of President of the United States.
948	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The Senate shall have the sole Power to try all Impeachments. When sitting for that Purpose, they shall be on Oath or Affirmation. When the President of the United States is tried, the Chief Justice shall preside: And no Person shall be convicted without the Concurrence of two thirds of the Members present.
949	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	Judgment in Cases of Impeachment shall not extend further than to removal from Office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any Office of honor, Trust or Profit under the United States: but the Party convicted shall nevertheless be liable and subject to Indictment, Trial, Judgment and Punishment, according to Law.
950	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The Times, Places and Manner of holding Elections for Senators and Representatives, shall be prescribed in each State by the Legislature thereof; but the Congress may at any time by Law make or alter such Regulations, except as to the Places of chusing Senators.
951	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The Congress shall assemble at least once in every Year, and such Meeting shall be on the first Monday in December, unless they shall by Law appoint a different Day.
952	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	Each House shall be the Judge of the Elections, Returns and Qualifications of its own Members,and a Majority of each shall constitute a Quorum to do Business; but a smaller Number may adjourn from day to day, and may be authorized to compel the Attendance of absent Members, in such Manner, and under such Penalties as each House may provide.
953	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	Each House may determine the Rules of its Proceedings, punish its Members for disorderly Behaviour, and, with the Concurrence of two thirds, expel a Member.
954	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	Each House shall keep a Journal of its Proceedings, and from time to time publish the same, excepting such Parts as may in their Judgment require Secrecy; and the Yeas and Nays of the Members of either House on any question shall, at the Desire of one fifth of those Present, be entered on the Journal.
955	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	Neither House, during the Session of Congress, shall, without the Consent of the other, adjourn for more than three days, nor to any other Place than that in which the two Houses shall be sitting.
956	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The Senators and Representatives shall receive a Compensation for their Services, to be ascertained by Law, and paid out of the Treasury of the United States.They shall in all Cases, except Treason, Felony and Breach of the Peace, be privileged from Arrest during their Attendance at the Session of their respective Houses, and in going to and returning from the same; and for any Speech or Debate in either House, they shall not be questioned in any other Place.
957	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	No Senator or Representative shall, during the Time for which he was elected, be appointed to any civil Office under the Authority of the United States, which shall have been created, or the Emoluments whereof shall have been encreased during such time; and no Person holding any Office under the United States, shall be a Member of either House during his Continuance in Office.
958	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	All Bills for raising Revenue shall originate in the House of Representatives; but the Senate may propose or concur with Amendments as on other Bills.
959	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	Every Bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and the Senate, shall, before it become a Law, be presented to the President of the United States; If he approve he shall sign it, but if not he shall return it, with his Objections to that House in which it shall have originated, who shall enter the Objections at large on their Journal, and proceed to reconsider it. If after such Reconsideration two thirds of that House shall agree to pass the Bill, it shall be sent, together with the Objections, to the other House, by which it shall likewise be reconsidered, and if approved by two thirds of that House, it shall become a Law. But in all such Cases the Votes of both Houses shall be determined by yeas and Nays, and the Names of the Persons voting for and against the Bill shall be entered on the Journal of each House respectively. If any Bill shall not be returned by the President within ten Days (Sundays excepted) after it shall have been presented to him, the Same shall be a Law, in like Manner as if he had signed it, unless the Congress by their Adjournment prevent its Return, in which Case it shall not be a Law.
960	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	Every Order, Resolution, or Vote to which the Concurrence of the Senate and House of Representatives may be necessary (except on a question of Adjournment) shall be presented to the President of the United States; and before the Same shall take Effect, shall be approved by him, or being disapproved by him, shall be repassed by two thirds of the Senate and House of Representatives, according to the Rules and Limitations prescribed in the Case of a Bill.
961	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The Congress shall have Power To lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts and provide for the common Defence and general Welfare of the United States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be uniform throughout the United States;
962	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	To borrow Money on the credit of the United States;
963	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	To regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian Tribes;
964	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	To establish a uniform Rule of Naturalization, and uniform Laws on the subject of Bankruptcies throughout the United States;
965	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	To coin Money, regulate the Value thereof, and of foreign Coin, and fix the Standard of Weights and Measures;
966	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	To provide for the Punishment of counterfeiting the Securities and current Coin of the United States;
967	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	To establish Post Offices and post Roads;
968	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries;
969	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	To constitute Tribunals inferior to the supreme Court;
970	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	To define and punish Piracies and Felonies committed on the high Seas, and Offences against the Law of Nations;
971	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	To declare War, grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal, and make Rules concerning Captures on Land and Water;
972	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	To raise and support Armies, but no Appropriation of Money to that Use shall be for a longer Term than two Years;
973	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	To provide and maintain a Navy;
974	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	To make Rules for the Government and Regulation of the land and naval Forces;
975	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	To provide for calling forth the Militia to execute the Laws of the Union, suppress Insurrections and repel Invasions;
976	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	To provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining, the Militia, and for governing such Part of them as may be employed in the Service of the United States, reserving to the States respectively, the Appointment of the Officers, and the Authority of training the Militia according to the discipline prescribed by Congress;
977	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	To exercise exclusive Legislation in all Cases whatsoever, over such District (not exceeding ten Miles square) as may, by Cession of particular States, and the Acceptance of Congress, become the Seat of the Government of the United States, and to exercise like Authority over all Places purchased by the Consent of the Legislature of the State in which the Same shall be, for the Erection of Forts, Magazines, Arsenals, dock-Yards and other needful Buildings;-And
978	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	To make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into Execution the foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of the United States, or in any Department or Officer thereof.
979	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The Migration or Importation of such Persons as any of the States now existing shall think proper to admit, shall not be prohibited by the Congress prior to the Year one thousand eight hundred and eight, but a Tax or duty may be imposed on such Importation, not exceeding ten dollars for each Person.
980	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The Privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus shall not be suspended, unless when in Cases of Rebellion or Invasion the public Safety may require it.
981	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	No Bill of Attainder or ex post facto Law shall be passed.
982	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	No Capitation, or other direct, Tax shall be laid, unless in Proportion to the Census or enumeration herein before directed to be taken.
983	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	No Tax or Duty shall be laid on Articles exported from any State.
984	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	No Preference shall be given by any Regulation of Commerce or Revenue to the Ports of one State over those of another: nor shall Vessels bound to, or from, one State, be obliged to enter, clear, or pay Duties in another.
985	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	No Money shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in Consequence of Appropriations made by Law; and a regular Statement and Account of the Receipts and Expenditures of all public Money shall be published from time to time.
986	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	No Title of Nobility shall be granted by the United States: And no Person holding any Office of Profit or Trust under them, shall, without the Consent of the Congress, accept of any present, Emolument, Office, or Title, of any kind whatever, from any King, Prince, or foreign State.
987	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	No State shall enter into any Treaty, Alliance, or Confederation; grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal; coin Money; emit Bills of Credit; make any Thing but gold and silver Coin a Tender in Payment of Debts; pass any Bill of Attainder, ex post facto Law, or Law impairing the Obligation of Contracts, or grant any Title of Nobility.
988	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	No State shall, without the Consent of the Congress, lay any Imposts or Duties on Imports or Exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing it's inspection Laws: and the net Produce of all Duties and Imposts, laid by any State on Imports or Exports, shall be for the Use of the Treasury of the United States; and all such Laws shall be subject to the Revision and Controul of the Congress.
989	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	No State shall, without the Consent of Congress, lay any Duty of Tonnage, keep Troops, or Ships of War in time of Peace, enter into any Agreement or Compact with another State, or with a foreign Power, or engage in War, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent Danger as will not admit of delay.
990	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The executive Power shall be vested in a President of the United States of America.
991	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	He shall hold his Office during the Term of four Years, and, together with the Vice President, chosen for the same Term, be elected, as follows:
992	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	Each State shall appoint, in such Manner as the Legislature thereof may direct, a Number of Electors, equal to the whole Number of Senators and Representatives to which the State may be entitled in the Congress: but no Senator or Representative, or Person holding an Office of Trust or Profit under the United States, shall be appointed an Elector.
993	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The Electors shall meet in their respective States, and vote by Ballot for two Persons, of whom one at least shall not be an Inhabitant of the same State with themselves. And they shall make a List of all the Persons voted for, and of the Number of Votes for each; which List they shall sign and certify, and transmit sealed to the Seat of the Government of the United States, directed to the President of the Senate. The President of the Senate shall, in the Presence of the Senate and House of Representatives, open all the Certificates, and the Votes shall then be counted. The Person having the greatest Number of Votes shall be the President, if such Number be a Majority of the whole Number of Electors appointed; and if there be more than one who have such Majority, and have an equal Number of Votes, then the House of Representatives shall immediately chuse by Ballot one of them for President; and if no Person have a Majority, then from the five highest on the List the said House shall in like Manner chuse the President. But in chusing the President, the Votes shall be taken by States, the Representation from each State having one Vote; A quorum for this Purpose shall consist of a Member or Members from two thirds of the States, and a Majority of all the States shall be necessary to a Choice. In every Case, after the Choice of the President, the Person having the greatest Number of Votes of the Electors shall be the Vice President. But if there should remain two or more who have equal Votes, the Senate shall chuse from them by Ballot the Vice President.
994	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The Congress may determine the Time of chusing the Electors, and the Day on which they shall give their Votes; which Day shall be the same throughout the United States.
995	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	No Person except a natural born Citizen, or a Citizen of the United States, at the time of the Adoption of this Constitution, shall be eligible to the Office of President; neither shall any Person be eligible to that Office who shall not have attained to the Age of thirty five Years, and been fourteen Years a Resident within the United States.
996	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	In Case of the Removal of the President from Office, or of his Death, Resignation, or Inability to discharge the Powers and Duties of the said Office, the Same shall devolve on the Vice President, and the Congress may by Law provide for the Case of Removal, Death, Resignation or Inability, both of the President and Vice President, declaring what Officer shall then act as President, and such Officer shall act accordingly, until the Disability be removed, or a President shall be elected.
997	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The President shall, at stated Times, receive for his Services, a Compensation, which shall neither be encreased nor diminished during the Period for which he shall have been elected, and he shall not receive within that Period any other Emolument from the United States, or any of them.
998	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	"Before he enter on the Execution of his Office, he shall take the following Oath or Affirmation:--""I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully execute the Office of President of the United States, and will to the best of my Ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States."
999	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The President shall be Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, and of the Militia of the several States, when called into the actual Service of the United States; he may require the Opinion, in writing, of the principal Officer in each of the executive Departments, upon any Subject relating to the Duties of their respective Offices, and he shall have Power to grant Reprieves and Pardons for Offences against the United States, except in Cases of Impeachment.
1000	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	He shall have Power, by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, to make Treaties, provided two thirds of the Senators present concur; and he shall nominate, and by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, shall appoint Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls, Judges of the supreme Court, and all other Officers of the United States, whose Appointments are not herein otherwise provided for, and which shall be established by Law: but the Congress may by Law vest the Appointment of such inferior Officers, as they think proper, in the President alone, in the Courts of Law, or in the Heads of Departments.
1001	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The President shall have Power to fill up all Vacancies that may happen during the Recess of the Senate, by granting Commissions which shall expire at the End of their next Session.
1002	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	He shall from time to time give to the Congress Information of the State of the Union, and recommend to their Consideration such Measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient; he may, on extraordinary Occasions, convene both Houses, or either of them, and in Case of Disagreement between them, with Respect to the Time of Adjournment, he may adjourn them to such Time as he shall think proper; he shall receive Ambassadors and other public Ministers; he shall take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed, and shall Commission all the Officers of the United States.
1003	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The President, Vice President and all civil Officers of the United States, shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors.
1004	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The judicial Power of the United States, shall be vested in one supreme Court, and in such inferior Courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish. The Judges, both of the supreme and inferior Courts, shall hold their Offices during good Behaviour, and shall, at stated Times, receive for their Services, a Compensation, which shall not be diminished during their Continuance in Office.
1005	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The judicial Power shall extend to all Cases, in Law and Equity, arising under this Constitution, the Laws of the United States, and Treaties made, or which shall be made, under their Authority;--to all Cases affecting Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls;--to all Cases of admiralty and maritime Jurisdiction;--to Controversies to which the United States shall be a Party;--to Controversies between two or more States;--between a State and Citizens of another State;--between Citizens of different States;--between Citizens of the same State claiming Lands under Grants of different States, and between a State, or the Citizens thereof, and foreign States, Citizens or Subjects.
1006	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	In all Cases affecting Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls, and those in which a State shall be Party, the supreme Court shall have original Jurisdiction. In all the other Cases before mentioned, the supreme Court shall have appellate Jurisdiction, both as to Law and Fact, with such Exceptions, and under such Regulations as the Congress shall make.
1007	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The Trial of all Crimes, except in Cases of Impeachment; shall be by Jury; and such Trial shall be held in the State where the said Crimes shall have been committed; but when not committed within any State, the Trial shall be at such Place or Places as the Congress may by Law have directed.
1008	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	Treason against the United States, shall consist only in levying War against them, or in adhering to their Enemies, giving them Aid and Comfort. No Person shall be convicted of Treason unless on the Testimony of two Witnesses to the same overt Act, or on Confession in open Court.
1009	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The Congress shall have Power to declare the Punishment of Treason, but no Attainder of Treason shall work Corruption of Blood, or Forfeiture except during the Life of the Person attainted.
1010	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each State to the public Acts, Records, and judicial Proceedings of every other State. And the Congress may by general Laws prescribe the Manner in which such Acts,Recordsand Proceedings shall be proved, and the Effect thereof.
1011	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The Citizens of each State shall be entitled to all Privileges and Immunities of Citizens in the several States.
1012	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	A Person charged in any State with Treason, Felony, or other Crime, who shall flee from Justice, and be found in another State, shall on Demand of the executive Authority of the State from which he fled, be delivered up, to be removed to the State having Jurisdiction of the Crime.
1013	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	No Person held to Service or Labour in one State, under the Laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in Consequence of any Law or Regulation therein, be discharged from such Service or Labour, but shall be delivered up on Claim of the Party to whom such Service or Labour may be due.
1014	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	New States may be admitted by the Congress into this Union; but no new State shall be formed or erected within the Jurisdiction of any other State; nor any State be formed by the Junction of two or more States, or Parts of States, without the Consent of the Legislatures of the States concerned as well as of the Congress.
1015	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The Congress shall have Power to dispose of and make all needful Rules and Regulations respecting the Territory or other Property belonging to the United States; and nothing in this Constitution shall be so construed as to Prejudice any Claims of the United States, or of any particular State.
1016	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The United States shall guarantee to every State in this Union a Republican Form of Government, and shall protect each of them against Invasion; and on Application of the Legislature, or of the Executive (when the Legislature cannot be convened) against domestic Violence.
1017	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The Congress, whenever two thirds of both Houses shall deem it necessary, shall propose Amendments to this Constitution, or, on the Application of the Legislatures of two thirds of the several States, shall call a Convention for proposing Amendments, which, in either Case, shall be valid to all Intents and Purposes, as Part of this Constitution, when ratified by the Legislatures of three fourths of the several States, or by Conventions in three fourths thereof, as the one or the other Mode of Ratification may be proposed by the Congress; Provided that no Amendment which may be made prior to the Year One thousand eight hundred and eight shall in any Manner affect the first and fourth Clauses in the Ninth Section of the first Article; and that no State, without its Consent, shall be deprived of its equal Suffrage in the Senate.
1018	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	All Debts contracted and Engagements entered into, before the Adoption of this Constitution, shall be as valid against the United States under this Constitution, as under the Confederation.
1019	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	This Constitution, and the Laws of the United States which shall be made in Pursuance thereof; and all Treaties made, or which shall be made, under the Authority of the United States, shall be the supreme Law of the Land; and the Judges in every State shall be bound thereby, any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrary notwithstanding.
1020	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The Senators and Representatives before mentioned, and the Members of the several State Legislatures, and all executive and judicial Officers, both of the United States and of the several States, shall be bound by Oath or Affirmation, to support this Constitution; but no religious Test shall ever be required as a Qualification to any Office or public Trust under the United States.
1021	US constitution						False	False	False	False	True	False	False	The Ratification of the Conventions of nine States, shall be sufficient for the Establishment of this Constitution between the States so ratifying the Same.
1022	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	True	True	Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.
1023	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	True	True	A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed.
1024	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	True	True	No Soldier shall, in time of peace be quartered in any house, without the consent of the Owner, nor in time of war, but in a manner to be prescribed by law.
1025	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	True	True	The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized.
1026	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	True	True	No person shall be held to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a Grand Jury, except in cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in the Militia, when in actual service in time of War or public danger; nor shall any person be subject for the same offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb; nor shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation.
1027	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	True	True	In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the State and district wherein the crime shall have been committed, which district shall have been previously ascertained by law, and to be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation; to be confronted with the witnesses against him; to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor, and to have the Assistance of Counsel for his defence.
1028	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	True	True	In Suits at common law, where the value in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved, and no fact tried by a jury, shall be otherwise re-examined in any Court of the United States, than according to the rules of the common law.
1029	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	True	True	Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted.
1030	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	True	True	The enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people.
1031	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	True	True	The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people.
1032	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	The Judicial power of the United States shall not be construed to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of the United States by Citizens of another State, or by Citizens or Subjects of any Foreign State.
1033	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	The Electors shall meet in their respective states and vote by ballot for President and Vice-President, one of whom, at least, shall not be an inhabitant of the same state with themselves; they shall name in their ballots the person voted for as President, and in distinct ballots the person voted for as Vice-President, and they shall make distinct lists of all persons voted for as President, and of all persons voted for as Vice-President, and of the number of votes for each, which lists they shall sign and certify, and transmit sealed to the seat of the government of the United States, directed to the President of the Senate; -- the President of the Senate shall, in the presence of the Senate and House of Representatives, open all the certificates and the votes shall then be counted; -- The person having the greatest number of votes for President, shall be the President, if such number be a majority of the whole number of Electors appointed; and if no person have such majority, then from the persons having the highest numbers not exceeding three on the list of those voted for as President, the House of Representatives shall choose immediately, by ballot, the President. But in choosing the President, the votes shall be taken by states, the representation from each state having one vote; a quorum for this purpose shall consist of a member or members from two-thirds of the states, and a majority of all the states shall be necessary to a choice. And if the House of Representatives shall not choose a President whenever the right of choice shall devolve upon them, before the fourth day of March next following, then the Vice-President shall act as President, as in case of the death or other constitutional disability of the President.-- The person having the greatest number of votes as Vice-President, shall be the Vice-President, if such number be a majority of the whole number of Electors appointed, and if no person have a majority, then from the two highest numbers on the list, the Senate shall choose the Vice-President; a quorum for the purpose shall consist of two-thirds of the whole number of Senators, and a majority of the whole number shall be necessary to a choice. But no person constitutionally ineligible to the office of President shall be eligible to that of Vice-President of the United States.
1034	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist within the United States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction.
1035	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation.
1036	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside. No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.
1037	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	Representatives shall be apportioned among the several States according to their respective numbers, counting the whole number of persons in each State, excluding Indians not taxed. But when the right to vote at any election for the choice of electors for President and Vice-President of the United States, Representatives in Congress, the Executive and Judicial officers of a State, or the members of the Legislature thereof, is denied to any of the male inhabitants of such State, being twenty-one years of age, and citizens of the United States, or in any way abridged, except for participation in rebellion, or other crime, the basis of representation therein shall be reduced in the proportion which the number of such male citizens shall bear to the whole number of male citizens twenty-one years of age in such State.
1038	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	No person shall be a Senator or Representative in Congress, or elector of President and Vice-President, or hold any office, civil or military, under the United States, or under any State, who, having previously taken an oath, as a member of Congress, or as an officer of the United States, or as a member of any State legislature, or as an executive or judicial officer of any State, to support the Constitution of the United States, shall have engaged in insurrection or rebellion against the same, or given aid or comfort to the enemies thereof. But Congress may by a vote of two-thirds of each House, remove such disability.
1039	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	The validity of the public debt of the United States, authorized by law, including debts incurred for payment of pensions and bounties for services in suppressing insurrection or rebellion, shall not be questioned. But neither the United States nor any State shall assume or pay any debt or obligation incurred in aid of insurrection or rebellion against the United States, or any claim for the loss or emancipation of any slave; but all such debts, obligations and claims shall be held illegal and void.
1040	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	The Congress shall have power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the provisions of this article.
1041	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude.
1042	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation.
1043	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	The Congress shall have power to lay and collect taxes on incomes, from whatever source derived, without apportionment among the several States, and without regard to any census or enumeration.
1044	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators from each State, elected by the people thereof, for six years; and each Senator shall have one vote. The electors in each State shall have the qualifications requisite for electors of the most numerous branch of the State legislatures.
1045	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	When vacancies happen in the representation of any State in the Senate, the executive authority of such State shall issue writs of election to fill such vacancies: Provided, That the legislature of any State may empower the executive thereof to make temporary appointments until the people fill the vacancies by election as the legislature may direct.
1046	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	This amendment shall not be so construed as to affect the election or term of any Senator chosen before it becomes valid as part of the Constitution.
1047	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	After one year from the ratification of this article the manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors within, the importation thereof into, or the exportation thereof from the United States and all territory subject to the jurisdiction thereof for beverage purposes is hereby prohibited.
1048	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	The Congress and the several States shall have concurrent power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation.
1049	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by the legislatures of the several States, as provided in the Constitution, within seven years from the date of the submission hereof to the States by the Congress.
1050	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	"The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex.

Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation."
1051	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	The terms of the President and the Vice President shall end at noon on the 20th day of January, and the terms of Senators and Representatives at noon on the 3d day of January, of the years in which such terms would have ended if this article had not been ratified; and the terms of their successors shall then begin.
1052	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	The Congress shall assemble at least once in every year, and such meeting shall begin at noon on the 3d day of January, unless they shall by law appoint a different day.
1053	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	If, at the time fixed for the beginning of the term of the President, the President elect shall have died, the Vice President elect shall become President. If a President shall not have been chosen before the time fixed for the beginning of his term, or if the President elect shall have failed to qualify, then the Vice President elect shall act as President until a President shall have qualified; and the Congress may by law provide for the case wherein neither a President elect nor a Vice President elect shall have qualified, declaring who shall then act as President, or the manner in which one who is to act shall be selected, and such person shall act accordingly until a President or Vice President shall have qualified.
1054	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	The Congress may by law provide for the case of the death of any of the persons from whom the House of Representatives may choose a President whenever the right of choice shall have devolved upon them, and for the case of the death of any of the persons from whom the Senate may choose a Vice President whenever the right of choice shall have devolved upon them.
1055	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	Sections 1 and 2 shall take effect on the 15th day of October following the ratification of this article.
1056	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States within seven years from the date of its submission.
1057	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	The eighteenth article of amendment to the Constitution of the United States is hereby repealed.
1058	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	The transportation or importation into any State, Territory, or possession of the United States for delivery or use therein of intoxicating liquors, in violation of the laws thereof, is hereby prohibited.
1059	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by conventions in the several States, as provided in the Constitution, within seven years from the date of the submission hereof to the States by the Congress.
1060	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	No person shall be elected to the office of the President more than twice, and no person who has held the office of President, or acted as President, for more than two years of a term to which some other person was elected President shall be elected to the office of the President more than once. But this Article shall not apply to any person holding the office of President when this Article was proposed by the Congress, and shall not prevent any person who may be holding the office of President, or acting as President, during the term within which this Article becomes operative from holding the office of President or acting as President during the remainder of such term.
1061	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States within seven years from the date of its submission to the States by the Congress.
1062	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	"The District constituting the seat of Government of the United States shall appoint in such manner as Congress may direct:

A number of electors of President and Vice President equal to the whole number of Senators and Representatives in Congress to which the District would be entitled if it were a State, but in no event more than the least populous State; they shall be in addition to those appointed by the States, but they shall be considered, for the purposes of the election of President and Vice President, to be electors appointed by a State; and they shall meet in the District and perform such duties as provided by the twelfth article of amendment."
1063	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation.
1064	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	The right of citizens of the United States to vote in any primary or other election for President or Vice President, for electors for President or Vice President, or for Senator or Representative in Congress, shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or any State by reason of failure to pay poll tax or other tax.
1065	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation.
1066	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	In case of the removal of the President from office or of his death or resignation, the Vice President shall become President.
1067	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	Whenever there is a vacancy in the office of the Vice President, the President shall nominate a Vice President who shall take office upon confirmation by a majority vote of both Houses of Congress.
1068	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	Whenever the President transmits to the President pro tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives his written declaration that he is unable to discharge the powers and duties of his office, and until he transmits to them a written declaration to the contrary, such powers and duties shall be discharged by the Vice President as Acting President.
1069	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	"Whenever the Vice President and a majority of either the principal officers of the executive departments or of such other body as Congress may by law provide, transmit to the President pro tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives their written declaration that the President is unable to discharge the powers and duties of his office, the Vice President shall immediately assume the powers and duties of the office as Acting President.

Thereafter, when the President transmits to the President pro tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives his written declaration that no inability exists, he shall resume the powers and duties of his office unless the Vice President and a majority of either the principal officers of the executive department or of such other body as Congress may by law provide, transmit within four days to the President pro tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives their written declaration that the President is unable to discharge the powers and duties of his office. Thereupon Congress shall decide the issue, assembling within forty-eight hours for that purpose if not in session. If the Congress, within twenty-one days after receipt of the latter written declaration, or, if Congress is not in session, within twenty-one days after Congress is required to assemble, determines by two-thirds vote of both Houses that the President is unable to discharge the powers and duties of his office, the Vice President shall continue to discharge the same as Acting President; otherwise, the President shall resume the powers and duties of his office."
1070	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	The right of citizens of the United States, who are eighteen years of age or older, to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of age.
1071	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation.
1072	US constitution						False	False	False	False	False	False	True	No law, varying the compensation for the services of the Senators and Representatives, shall take effect, until an election of Representatives shall have intervened.
